docs/devices/coros/windsurfing/windsurfing-airoha/README.md, before:

## COROS APEX 2 / APEX 2 Pro / VERTIX 2 / VERTIX 2S

### Windsurfing

#### 3.0508.0 and earlier

Test data is not available for windsurfing mode on the APEX 2 / APEX 2 Pro / VERTIX 2 prior to firmware 3.0510.0.



#### 3.0510.0

The COROS APEX 2 Pro loses a lot of the subtle details, presumably due to the filtering / smoothing of the windsurfing mode:

![v-3-0510-0-apex-2-pro-wsurf](img/v-3-0510-0-apex-2-pro-wsurf.png)

The Garmin Forerunner 255 faithfully captures the dynamics of this same test drive, with subtle variations being no greater than 2 motions:

![v-3-0510-0-fr-255-wsurf](img/v-3-0510-0-fr-255-wsurf.png)

GP3S have observed that accuracy issues / spikes are far more prevalent on the APEX 2 Pro and VERTIX 2 when using windsurfing mode.

This is almost certainly due to the use of positional data for speeds, rather than the Doppler-derived speeds of the Airoha chipset.

This is undesirable because people within the wider community also use the windsurfing mode, prone to inaccuracies and spikes.

Commit message:

Further tweaks and refinements to speedsurfing vs windsurfing

docs/devices/coros/windsurfing/windsurfing-airoha/README.md, after:

## COROS APEX 2 / APEX 2 Pro / VERTIX 2 / VERTIX 2S

### Windsurfing

#### 3.0508.0 and earlier

Test data is not available for windsurfing mode on the APEX 2 / APEX 2 Pro / VERTIX 2 prior to firmware 3.0510.0.



#### 3.0510.0

The COROS APEX 2 Pro loses a lot of the subtle details relating to speed, presumably due to the filtering / smoothing that is implemented:

![v-3-0510-0-apex-2-pro-wsurf](img/v-3-0510-0-apex-2-pro-wsurf.png)

The Garmin Forerunner 255 faithfully captures the dynamics of the test drive, with subtle variations being no greater than two motions:

![v-3-0510-0-fr-255-wsurf](img/v-3-0510-0-fr-255-wsurf.png)



### Outstanding Issue

GP3S have observed that accuracy issues / spikes are far more prevalent on the APEX 2 Pro / VERTIX 2 when using windsurfing mode. This is almost certainly due to the use of positional data for speeds, rather than the Doppler-derived speeds of the Airoha chipset. This behavior is somewhat undesirable because people within the wider community also use the windsurfing mode, prone to inaccuracies and spikes.

Our suggestion / preference would be for the windsurfing mode to process GNSS data in exactly the same way as the speedsurfing mode, once fixed.
