docs/chipsets/broadcom/bcm-4776.md, before:

## Broadcom GNSS Chipsets

### BCM4776

The BCM4776 was announced on 8 Jan 2020 in [GPSWorld](https://www.gpsworld.com/broadcoms-second-generation-dual-frequency-gnss-uses-l5-signals/). It is the second generation dual-frequency GNSS receivers from Broadcom.

The BCM4776 is also described in the [GNSS User Technology Report](https://prod5.assets-cdn.io/event/6041/assets/8361034923-231960e68d.pdf) 2020 / issue 3, published by [EUSPA](https://www.euspa.europa.eu/). See page 34.

There are 4 different chipsets in the BCM4776X family - BCM47768 + BCM47765 (dual-frequency) and BCM47764 + BCM47762 (single-frequency).

The [GPSTest Database](https://barbeau.medium.com/implementing-the-gpstest-database-a-serverless-architecture-c61a2084965) shows the BCM4776 in various Android phones:

- Google Pixel 8, Pixel 8 Pro
- Google Pixel 7, Pixel 7 Pro, Pixel 7a
- Google Pixel 6, Pixel 6 Pro, Pixel 6a
- Pixel Fold

#### BCM47768

The BCM47768 is a second generation dual-frequency GNSS chipset supporting L1 + L5. It is used in the Quectel LC29D(E) + LC29D(F) modules, detailed in the IoT&M2M Modules [product brochure](https://market.quectel.com/wp-content/uploads/custom/pdf/Quectel_Product_Brochure_CN_V6.7.pdf) v6.7, and shows a 10 Hz update rate.

The Xiaomi Watch S1 uses the BCM47768, clearly shown in a Chinese [teardown](https://www.chongdiantou.com/archives/140114.html).

Synaptics currently produce and sell the BCM47768, but it is called the [SYN47768](https://www.synaptics.com/products/wireless#products).

#### BCM47765

The [BCM47765](https://www.broadcom.com/products/wireless/gnss-gps-socs/bcm47765) is a second generation dual-frequency GNSS chipset supporting L1 + L5, still showing on the Broadcom [website](https://www.broadcom.com/products/wireless/gnss-gps-socs) as "Active". It is used in the Quectel LC29D(B) module, detailed in [specification](https://www.mouser.com/datasheet/2/1052/Quectel_LC29D_GNSS_Specification_V1_2-3009875.pdf) and [product overview](https://sisoog.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/Quectel_GNSS_Module_Product_Overview_V3.2-1.pdf) documents, which shows a 10 Hz update rate.

The BCM47765 appears in several Google Pixel products, including:

- [Google Pixel 8 and 8 Pro](https://www.reddit.com/r/GooglePixel/comments/1b57att/can_anyone_who_has_pixel_8_or_pixel_8_pro_do_a/) - Oct 2023
- [Google Pixel Watch](https://www.phonearena.com/news/report-reveals-bill-of-materials-cost-pixel-watch_id145978) - Oct 2022
- [Google Pixel 6](https://www.techinsights.com/blog/teardown/google-pixel-6-pro-teardown) - Oct 2021

Synaptics may produce and sell the BCM47765, but calling it the [SYN47765](https://www.edomtech.com/en/product-detail/synaptics-gps-gnss-solutions/).

#### BCM47764

The BCM47764 is a single-frequency GNSS chipset supporting GPS, GLONASS, BeiDou, Galileo, and QZSS.

It is used in the Apple Watch Series 7 and mentioned in a device analysis on [iPhoneWired](https://iphonewired.com/news/268068/).

The BCM47764KUBG can be found on parts websites, such as [italian.integrated-ic.com](https://italian.integrated-ic.com/sale-36831695-iphone-ic-chip-bcm47764kubg-gnss-receiver-bga-package-apple-watch-7-ic-chip.html).

Aside from this it is rarely mentioned in Google results, possibly being specific to Apple watches?

#### BCM47762

The BCM47762 is a single-frequency GNSS chipset supporting GPS, GLONASS, BeiDou, Galileo, and QZSS.

Several watches use the BCM47762, including:

- [Veho Kuzo Pro Sports Watch](https://www.sportpursuit.com/catalog/product/view/id/4629700/)
- [Amazfit Active/Pink/Sport Band/Petal Pink](https://gear-up.me/amazfit-active-pink-sport-band-petal-pink.html) - Feb 2024
- [AGM watch legion](https://www.ebay.com/itm/316250572709) - Feb 2025

Synaptics currently produce and sell the BCM47762, but it is called the [SYN47762](https://www.synaptics.com/products/wireless#products).

Commit message:

Add some Apple Watch details

docs/chipsets/broadcom/bcm-4776.md, after:

## Broadcom GNSS Chipsets

### BCM4776

The BCM4776 was announced on 8 Jan 2020 in [GPSWorld](https://www.gpsworld.com/broadcoms-second-generation-dual-frequency-gnss-uses-l5-signals/). It is the second generation dual-frequency GNSS receivers from Broadcom.

The BCM4776 is also described in the [GNSS User Technology Report](https://prod5.assets-cdn.io/event/6041/assets/8361034923-231960e68d.pdf) 2020 / issue 3, published by [EUSPA](https://www.euspa.europa.eu/). See page 34.

There are 4 different chipsets in the BCM4776X family - BCM47768 + BCM47765 (dual-frequency) and BCM47764 + BCM47762 (single-frequency).

The [GPSTest Database](https://barbeau.medium.com/implementing-the-gpstest-database-a-serverless-architecture-c61a2084965) shows the BCM4776 in various Android phones:

- Google Pixel 8, Pixel 8 Pro
- Google Pixel 7, Pixel 7 Pro, Pixel 7a
- Google Pixel 6, Pixel 6 Pro, Pixel 6a
- Pixel Fold

I suspect a multi-band BCM4776 chipset (i.e. BCM47768 or BCM47765) are used in Apple watches with an S8 CPU:

- Apple Watch Series 8
- Apple Watch SE (2nd gen)
- Apple Watch Ultra

#### BCM47768

The BCM47768 is a second generation dual-frequency GNSS chipset supporting L1 + L5. It is used in the Quectel LC29D(E) + LC29D(F) modules, detailed in the IoT&M2M Modules [product brochure](https://market.quectel.com/wp-content/uploads/custom/pdf/Quectel_Product_Brochure_CN_V6.7.pdf) v6.7, and shows a 10 Hz update rate.

The Xiaomi Watch S1 uses the BCM47768, clearly shown in a Chinese [teardown](https://www.chongdiantou.com/archives/140114.html).

Synaptics currently produce and sell the BCM47768, but it is called the [SYN47768](https://www.synaptics.com/products/wireless#products).

#### BCM47765

The [BCM47765](https://www.broadcom.com/products/wireless/gnss-gps-socs/bcm47765) is a second generation dual-frequency GNSS chipset supporting L1 + L5, still showing on the Broadcom [website](https://www.broadcom.com/products/wireless/gnss-gps-socs) as "Active". It is used in the Quectel LC29D(B) module, detailed in [specification](https://www.mouser.com/datasheet/2/1052/Quectel_LC29D_GNSS_Specification_V1_2-3009875.pdf) and [product overview](https://sisoog.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/Quectel_GNSS_Module_Product_Overview_V3.2-1.pdf) documents, which shows a 10 Hz update rate.

The BCM47765 appears in several Google Pixel products, including:

- [Google Pixel 8 and 8 Pro](https://www.reddit.com/r/GooglePixel/comments/1b57att/can_anyone_who_has_pixel_8_or_pixel_8_pro_do_a/) - Oct 2023
- [Google Pixel Watch](https://www.phonearena.com/news/report-reveals-bill-of-materials-cost-pixel-watch_id145978) - Oct 2022
- [Google Pixel 6](https://www.techinsights.com/blog/teardown/google-pixel-6-pro-teardown) - Oct 2021

Synaptics may produce and sell the BCM47765, but calling it the [SYN47765](https://www.edomtech.com/en/product-detail/synaptics-gps-gnss-solutions/).

#### BCM47764

The BCM47764 is a single-frequency GNSS chipset supporting GPS, GLONASS, BeiDou, Galileo, and QZSS.

It is used in the Apple Watch Series 7 and mentioned in a device analysis on [iPhoneWired](https://iphonewired.com/news/268068/).

The BCM47764KUBG can be found on parts websites, such as [italian.integrated-ic.com](https://italian.integrated-ic.com/sale-36831695-iphone-ic-chip-bcm47764kubg-gnss-receiver-bga-package-apple-watch-7-ic-chip.html).

Aside from this it is rarely mentioned in Google results, possibly being specific to Apple watches?

#### BCM47762

The BCM47762 is a single-frequency GNSS chipset supporting GPS, GLONASS, BeiDou, Galileo, and QZSS.

Several watches use the BCM47762, including:

- [Veho Kuzo Pro Sports Watch](https://www.sportpursuit.com/catalog/product/view/id/4629700/)
- [Amazfit Active/Pink/Sport Band/Petal Pink](https://gear-up.me/amazfit-active-pink-sport-band-petal-pink.html) - Feb 2024
- [AGM watch legion](https://www.ebay.com/itm/316250572709) - Feb 2025

Synaptics currently produce and sell the BCM47762, but it is called the [SYN47762](https://www.synaptics.com/products/wireless#products).
