docs/chipsets/broadcom/bcm-4773.md, before:

## Broadcom GNSS Chipsets

### BCM4773

The BCM4773 is a family of single-frequency GNSS chipsets supporting GPS, GLONASS, BeiDou, and QZSS.

#### BCM47734

The BCM47734 was not officially announced, but definitely exists.

It was used in the iPhone 7, clearly identified in a teardown by [Tech Insights](https://www.techinsights.com/blog/apple-iphone-7-teardown).

#### BCM4773

The [BCM4773](https://web.archive.org/web/20150301152328/http://www.broadcom.com/products/GPS/GPS-Silicon-Solutions/BCM4773) was announced on 10 Sep 2014 in [PR Newswire](https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/broadcom-announces-industrys-first-global-navigation-and-sensor-hub-combo-chip-274588761.html) and in [GPSWorld](https://www.gpsworld.com/new-broadcom-chip-always-on-location-and-sensing-for-mobile-applications/).

It was used in the Samsung Galaxy S6 (Exynos), visible in teardowns on [iFixit](https://ko.ifixit.com/Teardown/Samsung+Galaxy+S6+Teardown/39174) and [TechInsights](https://www.techinsights.com/blog/samsung-galaxy-s6-teardown).

Commit message:

Add some Apple Watch details

docs/chipsets/broadcom/bcm-4773.md, after:

## Broadcom GNSS Chipsets

### BCM4773

The BCM4773 is a family of single-frequency GNSS chipsets supporting GPS, GLONASS, BeiDou, and QZSS.

#### BCM47734

The BCM47734 was not officially announced, but is used in some Apple products:

- iPhone 7 from Sep 2016, visible in a teardown by [Tech Insights](https://www.techinsights.com/blog/apple-iphone-7-teardown) and discussed by [Navigation Mac & Co](https://www.navigation-mac.fr/galileo-et-les-mobiles-apple/?lang=en)
- Apple Watch Series 2 from Sep 2016, visible in a teardown by  [JIACO Instruments](https://jiaco-instruments.com/istfa-2017-2/) and [TechInsights](https://www.techinsights.com/blog/apple-watch-series-2-teardown)

#### BCM4773

The [BCM4773](https://web.archive.org/web/20150301152328/http://www.broadcom.com/products/GPS/GPS-Silicon-Solutions/BCM4773) was announced on 10 Sep 2014 in [PR Newswire](https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/broadcom-announces-industrys-first-global-navigation-and-sensor-hub-combo-chip-274588761.html) and in [GPSWorld](https://www.gpsworld.com/new-broadcom-chip-always-on-location-and-sensing-for-mobile-applications/).

It was used in the Samsung Galaxy S6 (Exynos), visible in teardowns on [iFixit](https://ko.ifixit.com/Teardown/Samsung+Galaxy+S6+Teardown/39174) and [TechInsights](https://www.techinsights.com/blog/samsung-galaxy-s6-teardown).
