docs/chipsets/broadcom/bcm-4774.md, before:

## Broadcom GNSS Chipsets

### BCM4774

The BCM4774 is second-generation GNSS location hub with Galileo support.

The [GPSTest Database](https://barbeau.medium.com/implementing-the-gpstest-database-a-serverless-architecture-c61a2084965) shows the BCM4774 in various Samsung phones and tablets:

- Samsung Galaxy S7 (Exynos)
- Samsung Galaxy S8 (Exynos)
- Samsung Galaxy S8+ (Exynos)
- Samsung Galaxy Note8 (Exynos)

#### BCM47748

The BCM47748 was announced on 17 Sep 2015 in [GPSWorld](https://www.gpsworld.com/broadcom-offers-new-gnss-chip-for-internet-of-things/).

It was a new GNSS chip for Internet of Things (IoT) and wearable devices that simplified integration of GNSS into low-cost products.

#### BCM4774

The [BCM4774](https://web.archive.org/web/20150306051924/http://www.broadcom.com/products/GPS/GPS-Silicon-Solutions/BCM4774) was announced on 2 Sep 2014 in [PR Newswire](https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/broadcom-announces-industrys-first-gnss-location-hub-for-smartphones-to-support-galileo-satellite-system-300002834.html) and on 7 Jan 2015 in [GPSWorld](https://www.gpsworld.com/all-constellation-receiver-gnss-location-hub-for-smartphones-with-galileo-support/), adding support for Galileo.

It appears in some Samsung phones and watches, including:

- [Samsung Gear Fit 2 Pro](https://www.techinsights.com/blog/samsung-gear-fit-2-pro-fitness-band-teardown) - Jun 2016
- [Samsung Galaxy S7](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/309645977_Precise_GNSS_for_Everyone_Precise_Positioning_Using_Raw_GPS_Measurements_from_Android_Smartphones) (Exynos) - Jun 2016

Commit message:

Add some Apple Watch details

docs/chipsets/broadcom/bcm-4774.md, after:

## Broadcom GNSS Chipsets

### BCM4774

The [BCM4774](https://web.archive.org/web/20150306051924/http://www.broadcom.com/products/GPS/GPS-Silicon-Solutions/BCM4774) is second-generation GNSS location hub with Galileo support, described by [Broadcom](https://www.slideshare.net/slideshow/2015-0305broadcomgalileoadvantages/45802600).

The [GPSTest Database](https://barbeau.medium.com/implementing-the-gpstest-database-a-serverless-architecture-c61a2084965) shows the BCM4774 in various Samsung phones and tablets:

- Samsung Galaxy S7 (Exynos)
- Samsung Galaxy S8 (Exynos)
- Samsung Galaxy S8+ (Exynos)
- Samsung Galaxy Note8 (Exynos)

#### BCM47748

The BCM47748 was announced on 17 Sep 2015 in [GPSWorld](https://www.gpsworld.com/broadcom-offers-new-gnss-chip-for-internet-of-things/).

It is a GNSS chip for the Internet of Things (IoT) and wearable devices , simplifying integration of GNSS into low-cost products.

The BCM47748 may have been used in the Apple Watch Series 3 and Series 4.

#### BCM4774

The [BCM4774](https://web.archive.org/web/20150306051924/http://www.broadcom.com/products/GPS/GPS-Silicon-Solutions/BCM4774) was announced on 2 Sep 2014 in [PR Newswire](https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/broadcom-announces-industrys-first-gnss-location-hub-for-smartphones-to-support-galileo-satellite-system-300002834.html) and on 7 Jan 2015 in [GPSWorld](https://www.gpsworld.com/all-constellation-receiver-gnss-location-hub-for-smartphones-with-galileo-support/), adding support for Galileo.

It appears in some Samsung phones and watches, including:

- [Samsung Gear Fit 2 Pro](https://www.techinsights.com/blog/samsung-gear-fit-2-pro-fitness-band-teardown) - Jun 2016
- [Samsung Galaxy S7](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/309645977_Precise_GNSS_for_Everyone_Precise_Positioning_Using_Raw_GPS_Measurements_from_Android_Smartphones) (Exynos) - Jun 2016
