docs/devices/garmin/watches/d2.md, before:

## Garmin D2

### Overview

This page lists the GNSS chipsets that are used in the Garmin D2 watches.

The D2 watches are premium aviator smartwatches, but they are also suitable for "on the water" activities.

The various models are listed in reverse-chronological order. The release dates are generally from Garmin announcements.



### Airoha

The D2 Mach 1 is similar to the [epix](epix.md), but with some additional aviation features and less recreational features.

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | -------- |
| D2 Mach 1 Pro | 2023-10  | 5.1.0 |  4079   | AG3335M | Y | |
| D2 Mach 1     | 2022-03  | 5.1.0 |  4079   | AG3335M | Y | |

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/airoha/devices.md) about the Airoha chipsets are available on another page.



### Sony

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | -------- |
| D2 Air X10 | 2022-02  | 5.0.0 |  4125   | CXD56xxxx | Y | |
| D2 Air | 2020-09 | 3.2.0 |  2187  | CXD56xxxx | Y | |

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/sony/devices.md) about the Sony chipsets are available on another page.



### Mediatek

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | -------- |
| D2 Delta PX       | 2018-07  | 3.1.0 | 3198, 3324 | MT3333 | Y | |
| D2 Delta          | 2018-07  | 3.1.0 |    3197    | MT3333 | Y | |
| D2 Delta S        | 2018-07  | 3.1.0 |    3196    | MT3333 | Y | |
| D2 Charlie        | 2017-07  | 3.0.0 | 2819, 2994 | MT3333 | - | |
| D2 Bravo Titanium | 2016-05  | 1.4.0 |    2547    | MT3333 | - | |
| D2 Bravo          | 2016-05  | 1.4.0 | 2262, 2467 | MT3333 | - | |

Alternative product number(s) are APAC models.

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/mediatek/devices.md) about the Mediatek chipsets are available on another page.

Commit message:

Add notes about D2 ranges being based on fenix / epix / Venu

docs/devices/garmin/watches/d2.md, after:

## Garmin D2

### Overview

This page lists the GNSS chipsets that are used in the Garmin D2 watches.

The D2 watches are premium aviator smartwatches, but they are also suitable for "on the water" activities.

The various models are listed in reverse-chronological order. The release dates are generally from Garmin announcements.



### Airoha

The D2 Mach 1 and D2 Mach 1 Pro were based on the [epix](epix.md). They were based on the epix (Gen 2) and epix Pro (Gen 2) respectively.

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | -------- |
| D2 Mach 1 Pro | 2023-10  | 5.1.0 |  4079   | AG3335M | Y | |
| D2 Mach 1     | 2022-03  | 5.1.0 |  4079   | AG3335M | Y | |

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/airoha/devices.md) about the Airoha chipsets are available on another page.



### Sony

The D2 Air and D2 Air X10 were based on the [Venu](venu.md). They were based on the original Venu and Venu 2 Plus respectively.

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | -------- |
| D2 Air X10 | 2022-02  | 5.0.0 |  4125   | CXD56xxxx | Y | |
| D2 Air | 2020-09 | 3.2.0 |  2187  | CXD56xxxx | Y | |

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/sony/devices.md) about the Sony chipsets are available on another page.



### Mediatek

The D2 Bravo, Charlie and Delta were based on the [fēnix](fenix.md). Most likely the fēnix 3 HR, fēnix 5 and fēnix 5 Plus.

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | -------- |
| D2 Delta PX       | 2018-07  | 3.1.0 | 3198, 3324 | MT3333 | Y | |
| D2 Delta          | 2018-07  | 3.1.0 |    3197    | MT3333 | Y | |
| D2 Delta S        | 2018-07  | 3.1.0 |    3196    | MT3333 | Y | |
| D2 Charlie        | 2017-07  | 3.0.0 | 2819, 2994 | MT3333 | - | |
| D2 Bravo Titanium | 2016-05  | 1.4.0 |    2547    | MT3333 | - | |
| D2 Bravo          | 2016-05  | 1.4.0 | 2262, 2467 | MT3333 | - | |

Alternative product number(s) are APAC models.

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/mediatek/devices.md) about the Mediatek chipsets are available on another page.
