docs/devices/garmin/watches/descent.md, before:

## Garmin Descent

### Overview

This page lists the GNSS chipsets that are used in the Garmin Descent watches.

The Descent watches are primarily dive computers, but they are also suitable for "on the water" activities.

The various models are listed in reverse-chronological order. The release dates are generally from Garmin announcements.



### Airoha

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | -------- |
| Descent G2 | 2025-02 | 5.0.0 | 4588 | AG3335MN ? | Y |  |
| Descent Mk3i - 51mm | 2023-11 | 5.0.0 | 4223 | AG3335M | Y | |
| Descent Mk3 / Mk3i - 43mm | 2023-11 | 5.0.0 | 4222 | AG3335M | Y | |

? - single band so could be AG3335MN or AG3352.

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/airoha/devices.md) about the Airoha chipsets are available on another page.



### Sony

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | -------- |
| Descent G1 / G1 Solar | 2022-03 | 3.4.0 | 4005, 4132 | CXD56xxxx | Y | |
| Descent Mk2 S | 2021-05 | 3.4.0 | 3542, 3930 | CXD56xxxx | Y | |
| Descent Mk2 / Mk2i | 2020-10 | 3.4.0 | 3258, 3702 | CXD56xxxx | Y | |

Alternative product number(s) are APAC models.

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/sony/devices.md) about the Sony chipsets are available on another page.



### Mediatek

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | -------- |
| Descent Mk1 | 2017-10 | 3.1.0 | 2859, 2991 | MT3333  | - |                                                              |

Alternative product number(s) are APAC models.

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/mediatek/devices.md) about the Mediatek chipsets are available on another page.

Commit message:

STart to classify Synaptics watches

docs/devices/garmin/watches/descent.md, after:

## Garmin Descent

### Overview

This page lists the GNSS chipsets that are used in the Garmin Descent watches.

The Descent watches are primarily dive computers, but they are also suitable for "on the water" activities.

The various models are listed in reverse-chronological order. The release dates are generally from Garmin announcements.



### TBC

The Descent G2 was released after the [fēnix 8](fenix.md), so may use an Airoha or Synaptics GNSS chipset.

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | -------- |
| Descent G2 | 2025-02 | 5.0.0 | 4588 | AG3335MN ? | Y |  |

? - single band so could be AG3335MN or AG3352.



### Airoha

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | -------- |
| Descent Mk3i - 51mm | 2023-11 | 5.0.0 | 4223 | AG3335M | Y | |
| Descent Mk3 / Mk3i - 43mm | 2023-11 | 5.0.0 | 4222 | AG3335M | Y | |

? - single band so could be AG3335MN or AG3352.

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/airoha/devices.md) about the Airoha chipsets are available on another page.



### Sony

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | -------- |
| Descent G1 / G1 Solar | 2022-03 | 3.4.0 | 4005, 4132 | CXD56xxxx | Y | |
| Descent Mk2 S | 2021-05 | 3.4.0 | 3542, 3930 | CXD56xxxx | Y | |
| Descent Mk2 / Mk2i | 2020-10 | 3.4.0 | 3258, 3702 | CXD56xxxx | Y | |

Alternative product number(s) are APAC models.

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/sony/devices.md) about the Sony chipsets are available on another page.



### Mediatek

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | -------- |
| Descent Mk1 | 2017-10 | 3.1.0 | 2859, 2991 | MT3333  | - |                                                              |

Alternative product number(s) are APAC models.

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/mediatek/devices.md) about the Mediatek chipsets are available on another page.
