docs/devices/garmin/watches/enduro.md, before:

## Garmin Enduro

### Overview

This page lists the GNSS chipsets that are used in the Garmin Enduro watches.

- The Enduro 2 is essentially a fēnix 7X - Sapphire Solar but with longer battery life and slightly different features.
- The Enduro 3 is also akin to a fēnix 7X - Sapphire Solar but with longer battery life and slightly newer software.

The various models are listed in reverse-chronological order. The release dates are generally from Garmin announcements.



### Airoha

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: |
| Enduro 3 | 2024-08 | 5.0.0 | 4575 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [specifications](https://www.garmin.com/en-GB/p/851039#specs) |
| Enduro 2 | 2022-01 | 5.0.0 | 4341 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-2CD92989-7336-4BF3-96CC-50DDBD63B109/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/08/garmin-enduro-review.html) |

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/airoha/devices.md) about the Airoha chipsets are available on another page.



### Sony

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: |
| Enduro        | 2021-02  | 3.4.0 |  3638, 3872  | CXD56xxxx | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-BD965919-30AA-4EB5-95D7-A899658C50EB/EN-US/GUID-31C5EBD6-A5E6-46FA-9EDE-43DBA4872546.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2021/02/garmin-enduro-watch-review.html) |

Alternative product number(s) are APAC variants.

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/sony/devices.md) about the Sony chipsets are available on another page.

Commit message:

STart to classify Synaptics watches

docs/devices/garmin/watches/enduro.md, after:

## Garmin Enduro

### Overview

This page lists the GNSS chipsets that are used in the Garmin Enduro watches.

- The Enduro 2 is essentially a fēnix 7X - Sapphire Solar but with longer battery life and slightly different features.
- The Enduro 3 is also akin to a fēnix 7X - Sapphire Solar but with longer battery life and slightly newer software.

The various models are listed in reverse-chronological order. The release dates are generally from Garmin announcements.



### Synaptics

The Enduro 3 was released at the same time as the [fēnix 8](fenix.md), so likely use the same Synaptics GNSS chipset.

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: |
| Enduro 3 | 2024-08 | 5.0.0 | 4575 | SYN4778 | Y | Garmin [specifications](https://www.garmin.com/en-GB/p/851039#specs) |



### Airoha

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: |
| Enduro 2 | 2022-01 | 5.0.0 | 4341 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-2CD92989-7336-4BF3-96CC-50DDBD63B109/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/08/garmin-enduro-review.html) |

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/airoha/devices.md) about the Airoha chipsets are available on another page.



### Sony

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: |
| Enduro        | 2021-02  | 3.4.0 |  3638, 3872  | CXD56xxxx | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-BD965919-30AA-4EB5-95D7-A899658C50EB/EN-US/GUID-31C5EBD6-A5E6-46FA-9EDE-43DBA4872546.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2021/02/garmin-enduro-watch-review.html) |

Alternative product number(s) are APAC variants.

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/sony/devices.md) about the Sony chipsets are available on another page.
