docs/devices/garmin/watches/epix.md, before:

## Garmin epix

### Overview

This page lists the GNSS chipsets that are used in the Garmin epix watches.

epix Gen 2 watches are essentially a fēnix 7 with AMOLED display, as described in an [article](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2023/12/garmin-fenix7-epix-release-history-explained.html) by DC Rainmaker.

The various models are listed in reverse-chronological order.



### Airoha

| Model                       | Released   | Chipset | References |
| --------------------------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- |
| epix Pro (Gen 2) - Sapphire - 42 / 47 / 51 mm | 2023-05 | AG3335M | Garmin [settings](https://support.garmin.com/en-GB/?faq=AJb6TtPSBU0dnAqkVP9u19) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2023/05/garmin-epix-pro-in-depth-review-now-in-three-sizes.html) |
| epix Pro (Gen 2) - 42 / 47 / 51 mm | 2023-05 | AG3335M | Garmin [settings](https://support.garmin.com/en-GB/?faq=AJb6TtPSBU0dnAqkVP9u19) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2023/05/garmin-epix-pro-in-depth-review-now-in-three-sizes.html) |
| epix (Gen 2) - Sapphire | 2022-01 | AG3335M | Garmin [settings](https://support.garmin.com/en-GB/?faq=AJb6TtPSBU0dnAqkVP9u19) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/01/garmin-epix-in-depth-review.html) |
| epix (Gen 2) | 2022-01 | AG3335MN | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-E5C62F3F-DCE3-4197-8CA5-E419B2A55D12/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/01/garmin-epix-in-depth-review.html) |

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/airoha/devices.md) about the Airoha chipsets are available on another page.



### Mediatek

| Model | Released | Chipset | References                                                   |
| ----- | -------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| epix  | 2015-01  | MT3333  | DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2015/01/garmin-epix-mapping-multisport.html) |

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/mediatek/devices.md) about the Mediatek chipsets are available on another page.

Commit message:

Add chipset information for Garmin tactix

docs/devices/garmin/watches/epix.md, after:

## Garmin epix

### Overview

This page lists the GNSS chipsets that are used in the Garmin epix watches.

epix Gen 2 watches are essentially a fēnix 7 with AMOLED display, as described in an [article](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2023/12/garmin-fenix7-epix-release-history-explained.html) by DC Rainmaker.

The various models are listed in reverse-chronological order. The release dates are generally from Garmin announcements.



### Airoha

| Model                       | Released   | Chipset | References |
| --------------------------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- |
| epix Pro (Gen 2) - Sapphire - 42 / 47 / 51 mm | 2023-05 | AG3335M | Garmin [settings](https://support.garmin.com/en-GB/?faq=AJb6TtPSBU0dnAqkVP9u19) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2023/05/garmin-epix-pro-in-depth-review-now-in-three-sizes.html) |
| epix Pro (Gen 2) - 42 / 47 / 51 mm | 2023-05 | AG3335M | Garmin [settings](https://support.garmin.com/en-GB/?faq=AJb6TtPSBU0dnAqkVP9u19) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2023/05/garmin-epix-pro-in-depth-review-now-in-three-sizes.html) |
| epix (Gen 2) - Sapphire | 2022-01 | AG3335M | Garmin [settings](https://support.garmin.com/en-GB/?faq=AJb6TtPSBU0dnAqkVP9u19) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/01/garmin-epix-in-depth-review.html) |
| epix (Gen 2) | 2022-01 | AG3335MN | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-E5C62F3F-DCE3-4197-8CA5-E419B2A55D12/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/01/garmin-epix-in-depth-review.html) |

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/airoha/devices.md) about the Airoha chipsets are available on another page.



### Mediatek

| Model | Released | Chipset | References                                                   |
| ----- | -------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| epix  | 2015-01  | MT3333  | DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2015/01/garmin-epix-mapping-multisport.html) |

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/mediatek/devices.md) about the Mediatek chipsets are available on another page.
