docs/devices/garmin/watches/fenix.md, before:

## Garmin fēnix

### Overview

This page lists the GNSS chipsets that are used in the Garmin fēnix watches.

The history of the fēnix (and epix) has been summarised in an [article](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2023/12/garmin-fenix7-epix-release-history-explained.html) by DC Rainmaker.

The various models are listed in reverse-chronological order. The release dates are generally from [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Garmin_Fenix#Models).



### Airoha

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: |
| fēnix E | 2024-08 | 5.0.0 | ? | AG3335MN \* | Y | Garmin [specifications](https://www.garmin.com/en-GB/p/1652337/pn/010-03025-00#specs) |
| fēnix 8 - 47/51 mm - Sapphire Solar | 2024-08 | 5.0.0 | ? | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [specifications](https://www.garmin.com/en-GB/p/1389491/pn/010-02906-21#specs) |
| fēnix 8 - 42/47/51 mm - AMOLED | 2024-08 | 5.0.0 | ? | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [specifications](https://www.garmin.com/en-GB/p/1228429/pn/010-02904-21#specs) |
| fēnix 7 / 7S / 7X - Pro Sapphire Solar | 2023-05 | 5.0.0 | 4375, 4374, 4376 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [settings](https://support.garmin.com/en-GB/?faq=J1fLrNa12T7hUAdWHyIXk8) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2023/05/garmin-fenix-7-pro-in-depth-review-flashlight-and-multiband-for-everyone.html) |
| fēnix 7 / 7S / 7X - Pro Solar | 2023-05 | 5.0.0 | 4375, 4374, 4376 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [settings](https://support.garmin.com/en-GB/?faq=J1fLrNa12T7hUAdWHyIXk8) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2023/05/garmin-fenix-7-pro-in-depth-review-flashlight-and-multiband-for-everyone.html) |
| fēnix 7 / 7S / 7X - Sapphire Solar | 2022-01 | 5.0.0 | 3906, 3905, 3907 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [settings](https://support.garmin.com/en-GB/?faq=J1fLrNa12T7hUAdWHyIXk8) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/01/garmin-fenix7-7s-7x-in-depth-review.html) |
| fēnix 7 / 7S (APAC) | 2022-01 | 5.0.0 | 3909, 3908, 3910 | AG3335MN | Y | - |
| fēnix 7 / 7S / 7X - Solar | 2022-01 | 5.0.0 | 3906, 3905, 3907 | AG3335MN | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-C001C335-A8EC-4A41-AB0E-BAC434259F92/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/01/garmin-fenix7-7s-7x-in-depth-review.html)<br />F Tipi [teardown](http://www.f-blog.info/garmin-fenix-7x-solar-teardown-non-destructive/) + element14 [teardown](https://youtu.be/vb8yyu8En1o?t=485) |
| fēnix 7 / 7S | 2022-01 | 5.0.0 | 3906, 3905 | AG3335MN | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-C001C335-A8EC-4A41-AB0E-BAC434259F92/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/01/garmin-fenix7-7s-7x-in-depth-review.html) |

\* - The fēnix E is essentially an epix (Gen 2) - 47 mm which used the AG3335MN.

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/airoha/devices.md) about the Airoha chipsets are available on another page.



### Sony

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: |
| fēnix 6 / 6S - Pro Solar | 2020-07  | 3.4.0 | ? | CXD56xxxx | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/fenix66s6xpro/EN-US/GUID-31C5EBD6-A5E6-46FA-9EDE-43DBA4872546.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2020/07/garmin-fenix-6-6s-pro-solar-review-whats-new-different.html) |
| fēnix 6 / 6S - Solar   | 2020-07  | 3.4.0 | ? | CXD56xxxx | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/fenix6-6ssport/EN-US/GUID-31C5EBD6-A5E6-46FA-9EDE-43DBA4872546.html) |
| fēnix 6 / 6S / 6X - Sapphire | 2019-08 | 3.4.0 | ? | CXD5603GF | Y |  |
| fēnix 6X - Pro Solar | 2019-08  | 3.4.0 | 3291 | CXD5603GF | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/fenix66s6xpro/EN-US/GUID-31C5EBD6-A5E6-46FA-9EDE-43DBA4872546.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2019/08/garmin-fenix6-pro-solar-series-review.html) |
| fēnix 6 / 6S / 6X - Pro | 2019-08  | 3.4.0 | 3290, 3288, 3291 | CXD5603GF | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/fenix66s6xpro/EN-US/GUID-31C5EBD6-A5E6-46FA-9EDE-43DBA4872546.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2019/08/garmin-fenix6-pro-solar-series-review.html) + F Tipi [teardown](http://www.f-blog.info/garmin-fenix-6x-pro-disassembly-or-teardown-whatever-you-say/) |
| fēnix 6 / 6S           | 2019-08  | 3.4.0 | 3289, 3287 | CXD5603GF | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/fenix6-6ssport/EN-US/GUID-31C5EBD6-A5E6-46FA-9EDE-43DBA4872546.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2019/08/garmin-fenix6-pro-solar-series-review.html) |

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/sony/devices.md) about the Sony chipsets are available on another page.



### Mediatek

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: |
| fēnix 5 / 5S / 5X Plus | 2018-06  | 3.3.0 | 3110, 2900, 3111 | MT3333  | Y | EDN [teardown](https://www.edn.com/teardown-a-smartwatch-with-an-athletic-tradition/) |
| fēnix 5 / 5S / 5X      | 2017-01  | 3.1.0 | 2697, 2544, 2604 | MT3333  | Y | F Tipi [teardown](http://www.f-blog.info/garmin-fenix-5x-inner-parts-teardown-disassembly-assembly-etc-no-disassemble/) |
| fēnix Chronos          | 2016-08  | 3.1.0 | 2432 | MT3333  | Y | DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2016/08/garmin-chronos-details.html) |
| fēnix 3 HR             | 2016-01  | 1.4.0 | 2413 | MT3333  | - | Red Turtle [teardown](https://medium.com/personal-notes-on-the-garmin-f%C4%93nix-3-hr/f%C4%93nix-3-hr-a-non-destructive-teardown-bcfb45f1b746) |
| fēnix 3                | 2015-01  | 1.4.0 | 2050 | MT3333  | - | F Tipi [teardown](http://www.f-blog.info/diving-inside-garmin-fenix-3-tear-down-etc/) + iFixit [teardown](https://www.ifixit.com/Guide/Garmin+Fenix+3+Motherboard+Replacement/113919) |
| fēnix 2                | 2014-02  | -     | 1967 | MT333x  | - |                                                              |
| fēnix                  | 2012-07  | -     | 1551 | MT333x  | - |                                                              |

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/mediatek/devices.md) about the Mediatek chipsets are available on another page.

Commit message:

Add notes about the MT333x in watches prior to 2013

docs/devices/garmin/watches/fenix.md, after:

## Garmin fēnix

### Overview

This page lists the GNSS chipsets that are used in the Garmin fēnix watches.

The history of the fēnix (and epix) has been summarised in an [article](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2023/12/garmin-fenix7-epix-release-history-explained.html) by DC Rainmaker.

The various models are listed in reverse-chronological order. The release dates are generally from [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Garmin_Fenix#Models).



### Airoha

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: |
| fēnix E | 2024-08 | 5.0.0 | ? | AG3335MN \* | Y | Garmin [specifications](https://www.garmin.com/en-GB/p/1652337/pn/010-03025-00#specs) |
| fēnix 8 - 47/51 mm - Sapphire Solar | 2024-08 | 5.0.0 | ? | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [specifications](https://www.garmin.com/en-GB/p/1389491/pn/010-02906-21#specs) |
| fēnix 8 - 42/47/51 mm - AMOLED | 2024-08 | 5.0.0 | ? | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [specifications](https://www.garmin.com/en-GB/p/1228429/pn/010-02904-21#specs) |
| fēnix 7 / 7S / 7X - Pro Sapphire Solar | 2023-05 | 5.0.0 | 4375, 4374, 4376 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [settings](https://support.garmin.com/en-GB/?faq=J1fLrNa12T7hUAdWHyIXk8) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2023/05/garmin-fenix-7-pro-in-depth-review-flashlight-and-multiband-for-everyone.html) |
| fēnix 7 / 7S / 7X - Pro Solar | 2023-05 | 5.0.0 | 4375, 4374, 4376 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [settings](https://support.garmin.com/en-GB/?faq=J1fLrNa12T7hUAdWHyIXk8) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2023/05/garmin-fenix-7-pro-in-depth-review-flashlight-and-multiband-for-everyone.html) |
| fēnix 7 / 7S / 7X - Sapphire Solar | 2022-01 | 5.0.0 | 3906, 3905, 3907 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [settings](https://support.garmin.com/en-GB/?faq=J1fLrNa12T7hUAdWHyIXk8) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/01/garmin-fenix7-7s-7x-in-depth-review.html) |
| fēnix 7 / 7S (APAC) | 2022-01 | 5.0.0 | 3909, 3908, 3910 | AG3335MN | Y | - |
| fēnix 7 / 7S / 7X - Solar | 2022-01 | 5.0.0 | 3906, 3905, 3907 | AG3335MN | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-C001C335-A8EC-4A41-AB0E-BAC434259F92/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/01/garmin-fenix7-7s-7x-in-depth-review.html)<br />F Tipi [teardown](http://www.f-blog.info/garmin-fenix-7x-solar-teardown-non-destructive/) + element14 [teardown](https://youtu.be/vb8yyu8En1o?t=485) |
| fēnix 7 / 7S | 2022-01 | 5.0.0 | 3906, 3905 | AG3335MN | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-C001C335-A8EC-4A41-AB0E-BAC434259F92/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/01/garmin-fenix7-7s-7x-in-depth-review.html) |

\* - The fēnix E is essentially an epix (Gen 2) - 47 mm which used the AG3335MN.

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/airoha/devices.md) about the Airoha chipsets are available on another page.



### Sony

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: |
| fēnix 6 / 6S - Pro Solar | 2020-07  | 3.4.0 | ? | CXD56xxxx | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/fenix66s6xpro/EN-US/GUID-31C5EBD6-A5E6-46FA-9EDE-43DBA4872546.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2020/07/garmin-fenix-6-6s-pro-solar-review-whats-new-different.html) |
| fēnix 6 / 6S - Solar   | 2020-07  | 3.4.0 | ? | CXD56xxxx | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/fenix6-6ssport/EN-US/GUID-31C5EBD6-A5E6-46FA-9EDE-43DBA4872546.html) |
| fēnix 6 / 6S / 6X - Sapphire | 2019-08 | 3.4.0 | ? | CXD5603GF | Y |  |
| fēnix 6X - Pro Solar | 2019-08  | 3.4.0 | 3291 | CXD5603GF | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/fenix66s6xpro/EN-US/GUID-31C5EBD6-A5E6-46FA-9EDE-43DBA4872546.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2019/08/garmin-fenix6-pro-solar-series-review.html) |
| fēnix 6 / 6S / 6X - Pro | 2019-08  | 3.4.0 | 3290, 3288, 3291 | CXD5603GF | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/fenix66s6xpro/EN-US/GUID-31C5EBD6-A5E6-46FA-9EDE-43DBA4872546.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2019/08/garmin-fenix6-pro-solar-series-review.html) + F Tipi [teardown](http://www.f-blog.info/garmin-fenix-6x-pro-disassembly-or-teardown-whatever-you-say/) |
| fēnix 6 / 6S           | 2019-08  | 3.4.0 | 3289, 3287 | CXD5603GF | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/fenix6-6ssport/EN-US/GUID-31C5EBD6-A5E6-46FA-9EDE-43DBA4872546.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2019/08/garmin-fenix6-pro-solar-series-review.html) |

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/sony/devices.md) about the Sony chipsets are available on another page.



### Mediatek

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: |
| fēnix 5 / 5S / 5X Plus | 2018-06  | 3.3.0 | 3110, 2900, 3111 | MT3333  | Y | EDN [teardown](https://www.edn.com/teardown-a-smartwatch-with-an-athletic-tradition/) |
| fēnix 5 / 5S / 5X      | 2017-01  | 3.1.0 | 2697, 2544, 2604 | MT3333  | Y | F Tipi [teardown](http://www.f-blog.info/garmin-fenix-5x-inner-parts-teardown-disassembly-assembly-etc-no-disassemble/) |
| fēnix Chronos          | 2016-08  | 3.1.0 | 2432 | MT3333  | Y | DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2016/08/garmin-chronos-details.html) |
| fēnix 3 HR             | 2016-01  | 1.4.0 | 2413 | MT3333  | - | Red Turtle [teardown](https://medium.com/personal-notes-on-the-garmin-f%C4%93nix-3-hr/f%C4%93nix-3-hr-a-non-destructive-teardown-bcfb45f1b746) |
| fēnix 3                | 2015-01  | 1.4.0 | 2050 | MT3333  | - | F Tipi [teardown](http://www.f-blog.info/diving-inside-garmin-fenix-3-tear-down-etc/) + iFixit [teardown](https://www.ifixit.com/Guide/Garmin+Fenix+3+Motherboard+Replacement/113919) |
| fēnix 2                | 2014-02  | -     | 1967 | MT3333 | - |                                                              |
| fēnix                  | 2012-07  | -     | 1551 | MT333x  | - |                                                              |

The MT333x in watches prior to 2013 was likely to be the MT3339 or MT3337.

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/mediatek/devices.md) about the Mediatek chipsets are available on another page.
