docs/devices/garmin/watches/forerunner.md, before:

## Garmin Forerunner

### Overview

This page lists the GNSS chipsets that are used in the Garmin Forerunner watches.

The various models are listed in reverse-chronological order. The release dates are generally from [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Garmin_Forerunner#Release_history).



### Airoha

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | --------------------------- |
| Forerunner 165 Music      | 2024-02 | 5.0.0 | 4433 | AG3335MN ? | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-607F08F6-33FC-40BF-9727-84E54043D82D/EN-US/GUID-E01D9421-9E1B-4D85-81A0-46C6DCFAA9E4.html) + [the5krunner](https://the5krunner.com/2024/03/02/garmin-forerunner-165-review-specifications/) |
| Forerunner 165 | 2024-02 | 5.0.0 | 4432 | AG3335MN ? | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-607F08F6-33FC-40BF-9727-84E54043D82D/EN-US/GUID-E01D9421-9E1B-4D85-81A0-46C6DCFAA9E4.html) + [the5krunner](https://the5krunner.com/2024/03/02/garmin-forerunner-165-review-specifications/) |
| Forerunner 965              | 2023-03 | 5.0.0 | 4315 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-0221611A-992D-495E-8DED-1DD448F7A066/EN-US/GUID-E01D9421-9E1B-4D85-81A0-46C6DCFAA9E4.html) + [TechInsights](https://www.techinsights.com/blog/deep-dive-teardown-garmin-forerunner-965-a04578-smartwatch) |
| Forerunner 265S       | 2023-03 | 5.0.0 | 4258 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-F41EAFB3-6CC9-42DE-9C6C-9E358DBB0671/EN-US/GUID-E01D9421-9E1B-4D85-81A0-46C6DCFAA9E4.html) |
| Forerunner 265 | 2023-03 | 5.0.0 | 4257 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-F41EAFB3-6CC9-42DE-9C6C-9E358DBB0671/EN-US/GUID-E01D9421-9E1B-4D85-81A0-46C6DCFAA9E4.html) |
| Forerunner 955 [Solar] | 2022-06 | 5.0.0 | 4024 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-9D99A9D4-467A-4F1A-A0EA-023184FEA3DD/EN-US/GUID-E01D9421-9E1B-4D85-81A0-46C6DCFAA9E4.html) + [reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/GarminWatches/comments/126v3m7/comment/jebutnb/) |
| Forerunner 255S | 2022-06 | 5.0.0 | 3993 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-676967A0-1B23-4384-9BC9-76F3D643F1C8/EN-US/GUID-E01D9421-9E1B-4D85-81A0-46C6DCFAA9E4.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/06/garmin-forerunner-255-review-multisport.html) |
| Forerunner 255 | 2022-06 | 5.0.0 | 3992 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-676967A0-1B23-4384-9BC9-76F3D643F1C8/EN-US/GUID-E01D9421-9E1B-4D85-81A0-46C6DCFAA9E4.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/06/garmin-forerunner-255-review-multisport.html) |
| Forerunner 255S Music | 2022-06 | 5.0.0 | 3991 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-676967A0-1B23-4384-9BC9-76F3D643F1C8/EN-US/GUID-E01D9421-9E1B-4D85-81A0-46C6DCFAA9E4.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/06/garmin-forerunner-255-review-multisport.html) |
| Forerunner 255 Music | 2022-06 | 5.0.0 | 3990 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-676967A0-1B23-4384-9BC9-76F3D643F1C8/EN-US/GUID-E01D9421-9E1B-4D85-81A0-46C6DCFAA9E4.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/06/garmin-forerunner-255-review-multisport.html) |

? - single band so could be AG3335MN or AG3352.

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/airoha/devices.md) about the Airoha chipsets are available on another page.



### Sony

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | --------------------------- |
| Forerunner 55 (Asia)        | 2021-06 | 3.4.0 | 4033 | CXD56xxxx | Y | Garmin [forum](https://forums.garmin.com/developer/connect-iq/f/discussion/271658/what-is-it-fr158) |
| Forerunner 945 LTE (Asia) | 2021-06 | 4.2.0 | 3978 | CXD56xxxx | Y | |
| Forerunner 55 | 2021-06 | 3.4.0 | 3869 | CXD56xxxx | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-3A791586-B59F-4B37-B9C5-5A41F8C6BE0B/EN-US/GUID-783E2C4A-85FB-4E82-946E-16003B9B599A.html) |
| Forerunner 745 (Asia)     | 2020-09 | 3.3.0 | 3794 | CXD56xxxx | Y |  |
| Forerunner 945 LTE          | 2021-06 | 4.2.0 | 3652 | CXD56xxxx | Y |  |
| Forerunner 745 | 2020-09 | 3.3.0 | 3589 | CXD56xxxx | Y | |
| Forerunner 45 Plus | 2020-08 | 1.4.0 | 3469 | CXD56xxxx | - | |
| Forerunner 45 / 45S | 2019-04 | 1.4.0 | 3469 | CXD5603GF | - |  |
| Forerunner 945 (Asia) | 2019-04 | 3.3.0 | 3441 | CXD5603GF | Y | |
| Forerunner 245 Music | 2019-04 | 3.3.0 | 3321 | CXD5603GF | Y | iFixit [teardown](https://www.ifixit.com/Teardown/Garmin+Forerunner+245+Music+Teardown/150396?srsltid=AfmBOoqg114zv10EakWr_a1-HPvIx9ZS2-FD9lbg5X57jVdyvS60z2Vz) |
| Forerunner 245 | 2019-04 | 3.3.0 | 3145 | CXD5603GF | Y |  |
| Forerunner 945       | 2019-04 | 3.3.0 | 3113 | CXD5603GF | Y |            |

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/sony/devices.md) about the Sony chipsets are available on another page.



### Mediatek

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | --------------------------- |
| Forerunner 645 Music | 2018-01 | 3.2.0 |  | MT3333 | Y | |
| Forerunner 645 | 2018-01 | 3.1.0 |  | MT3333 | Y |  |
| Forerunner 30               | 2017-09 | - |  | MT3333 | - |  |
| Forerunner 935              | 2017-03 | 3.1.0 |  | MT3333 | Y |  |
| Forerunner 35               | 2016-08 | - |  | MT3333 | - |  |
| Forerunner 735XT            | 2016-05 | 2.4.0 |  | MT3333 | - | iFixit [teardown](https://www.ifixit.com/Teardown/Garmin+Forerunner+735XT+Teardown/117852) |
| Forerunner 630              | 2015-10 | 1.4.0 |  | MT3333 | - | Tech T [teardown](https://youtu.be/WdbPKmjUrKc?t=114) |
| Forerunner 235        | 2015-10 | 1.4.0 |  | MT3333 | - |  |
| Forerunner 230 | 2015-10 | 1.4.0 |  | MT3333 | - | Embedded [teardown](https://embeddedcomputing.com/27555-tear-down-garmin-forerunner-230-gps-running-watch/) |
| Forerunner 25               | 2015-08 | - |  | MT333x | - |  |
| Forerunner 225              | 2015-05 | - |  | MT3333 | - |                                                              |
| Forerunner 920XT            | 2014-10 | 1.4.0 |  | MT3333 | - |  |
| Forerunner 15               | 2014-05 | - |  | MT333x | - |  |
| Forerunner 620              | 2013-09 | - |  | MT3333 | - |                                                              |
| Forerunner 220              | 2013-09 | - |  | MT3333 | - | EE World [teardown](https://www.eeworldonline.com/teardown-garmin-forerunner-220-sport-watch-heart-monitor/) |
| Forerunner 10    | 2012-08 | - |  | MT333x | - |  |

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/mediatek/devices.md) about the Mediatek chipsets are available on another page.




### SiRF

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | --------------------------- |
| Forerunner 910XT | 2011-10 | - |  | SiRFstarIV | - | DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2011/10/garmin-forerunner-910xt-in-depth-review.html) |
| Forerunner 70 | 2011-10 | - | | SiRFstarIV | - |  |
| Forerunner 610   | 2011-04 | - |  | SiRFstarIV | - | DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2011/04/garmin-forerunner-610-in-depth-review.html) |
| Forerunner 410   | 2010-10 | - |  | SiRFstarIV | - |  |
| Forerunner 210   | 2010-10 | - |  | SiRFstarIV | - |  |
| Forerunner 110   | 2010-03 | - |  | SiRFstarIV | - | DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2010/03/garmin-forerunner-110-first-look-review.html) |
| Forerunner 405CX | 2009-04 | - |  | SiRFstarIII ? | - |  |
| Forerunner 310XT | 2009-04 | - |  | SiRFstarIII ? | - |  |
| Forerunner 60    | 2009-01 | - |  | SiRFstarIII ? | - |  |
| Forerunner 405   | 2008-01 | - |  | SiRFstarIII | - |  |
| Forerunner 50    | 2007-08 | - |  | SiRFstarIII | - |  |
| Forerunner 305   | 2006-01 | - |  | SiRFstarIII | - | Garmin [manual](https://static.garmin.com/pumac/984_OwnersManual.pdf) |
| Forerunner 205   | 2006-01 | - |  | SiRFstarIII | - | Garmin [manual](https://static.garmin.com/pumac/984_OwnersManual.pdf) |
| Forerunner 301   | 2005-01 | - |  | SiRFstarII | - |  |
| Forerunner 201   | 2003-08 | - |  | SiRFstarII | - |  |
| Forerunner 101   | 2003-03 | - |  | SiRFstarII | - |  |

Commit message:

Add notes about the MT333x in watches prior to 2013

docs/devices/garmin/watches/forerunner.md, after:

## Garmin Forerunner

### Overview

This page lists the GNSS chipsets that are used in the Garmin Forerunner watches.

The various models are listed in reverse-chronological order. The release dates are generally from [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Garmin_Forerunner#Release_history).



### Airoha

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | --------------------------- |
| Forerunner 165 Music      | 2024-02 | 5.0.0 | 4433 | AG3335MN ? | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-607F08F6-33FC-40BF-9727-84E54043D82D/EN-US/GUID-E01D9421-9E1B-4D85-81A0-46C6DCFAA9E4.html) + [the5krunner](https://the5krunner.com/2024/03/02/garmin-forerunner-165-review-specifications/) |
| Forerunner 165 | 2024-02 | 5.0.0 | 4432 | AG3335MN ? | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-607F08F6-33FC-40BF-9727-84E54043D82D/EN-US/GUID-E01D9421-9E1B-4D85-81A0-46C6DCFAA9E4.html) + [the5krunner](https://the5krunner.com/2024/03/02/garmin-forerunner-165-review-specifications/) |
| Forerunner 965              | 2023-03 | 5.0.0 | 4315 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-0221611A-992D-495E-8DED-1DD448F7A066/EN-US/GUID-E01D9421-9E1B-4D85-81A0-46C6DCFAA9E4.html) + [TechInsights](https://www.techinsights.com/blog/deep-dive-teardown-garmin-forerunner-965-a04578-smartwatch) |
| Forerunner 265S       | 2023-03 | 5.0.0 | 4258 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-F41EAFB3-6CC9-42DE-9C6C-9E358DBB0671/EN-US/GUID-E01D9421-9E1B-4D85-81A0-46C6DCFAA9E4.html) |
| Forerunner 265 | 2023-03 | 5.0.0 | 4257 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-F41EAFB3-6CC9-42DE-9C6C-9E358DBB0671/EN-US/GUID-E01D9421-9E1B-4D85-81A0-46C6DCFAA9E4.html) |
| Forerunner 955 [Solar] | 2022-06 | 5.0.0 | 4024 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-9D99A9D4-467A-4F1A-A0EA-023184FEA3DD/EN-US/GUID-E01D9421-9E1B-4D85-81A0-46C6DCFAA9E4.html) + [reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/GarminWatches/comments/126v3m7/comment/jebutnb/) |
| Forerunner 255S | 2022-06 | 5.0.0 | 3993 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-676967A0-1B23-4384-9BC9-76F3D643F1C8/EN-US/GUID-E01D9421-9E1B-4D85-81A0-46C6DCFAA9E4.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/06/garmin-forerunner-255-review-multisport.html) |
| Forerunner 255 | 2022-06 | 5.0.0 | 3992 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-676967A0-1B23-4384-9BC9-76F3D643F1C8/EN-US/GUID-E01D9421-9E1B-4D85-81A0-46C6DCFAA9E4.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/06/garmin-forerunner-255-review-multisport.html) |
| Forerunner 255S Music | 2022-06 | 5.0.0 | 3991 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-676967A0-1B23-4384-9BC9-76F3D643F1C8/EN-US/GUID-E01D9421-9E1B-4D85-81A0-46C6DCFAA9E4.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/06/garmin-forerunner-255-review-multisport.html) |
| Forerunner 255 Music | 2022-06 | 5.0.0 | 3990 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-676967A0-1B23-4384-9BC9-76F3D643F1C8/EN-US/GUID-E01D9421-9E1B-4D85-81A0-46C6DCFAA9E4.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/06/garmin-forerunner-255-review-multisport.html) |

? - single band so could be AG3335MN or AG3352.

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/airoha/devices.md) about the Airoha chipsets are available on another page.



### Sony

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | --------------------------- |
| Forerunner 55 (Asia)        | 2021-06 | 3.4.0 | 4033 | CXD56xxxx | Y | Garmin [forum](https://forums.garmin.com/developer/connect-iq/f/discussion/271658/what-is-it-fr158) |
| Forerunner 945 LTE (Asia) | 2021-06 | 4.2.0 | 3978 | CXD56xxxx | Y | |
| Forerunner 55 | 2021-06 | 3.4.0 | 3869 | CXD56xxxx | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-3A791586-B59F-4B37-B9C5-5A41F8C6BE0B/EN-US/GUID-783E2C4A-85FB-4E82-946E-16003B9B599A.html) |
| Forerunner 745 (Asia)     | 2020-09 | 3.3.0 | 3794 | CXD56xxxx | Y |  |
| Forerunner 945 LTE          | 2021-06 | 4.2.0 | 3652 | CXD56xxxx | Y |  |
| Forerunner 745 | 2020-09 | 3.3.0 | 3589 | CXD56xxxx | Y | |
| Forerunner 45 Plus | 2020-08 | 1.4.0 | 3469 | CXD56xxxx | - | |
| Forerunner 45 / 45S | 2019-04 | 1.4.0 | 3469 | CXD5603GF | - |  |
| Forerunner 945 (Asia) | 2019-04 | 3.3.0 | 3441 | CXD5603GF | Y | |
| Forerunner 245 Music | 2019-04 | 3.3.0 | 3321 | CXD5603GF | Y | iFixit [teardown](https://www.ifixit.com/Teardown/Garmin+Forerunner+245+Music+Teardown/150396?srsltid=AfmBOoqg114zv10EakWr_a1-HPvIx9ZS2-FD9lbg5X57jVdyvS60z2Vz) |
| Forerunner 245 | 2019-04 | 3.3.0 | 3145 | CXD5603GF | Y |  |
| Forerunner 945       | 2019-04 | 3.3.0 | 3113 | CXD5603GF | Y |            |

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/sony/devices.md) about the Sony chipsets are available on another page.



### Mediatek

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | --------------------------- |
| Forerunner 645 Music | 2018-01 | 3.2.0 |  | MT3333 | Y | |
| Forerunner 645 | 2018-01 | 3.1.0 |  | MT3333 | Y |  |
| Forerunner 30               | 2017-09 | - |  | MT3333 | - |  |
| Forerunner 935              | 2017-03 | 3.1.0 |  | MT3333 | Y |  |
| Forerunner 35               | 2016-08 | - |  | MT3333 | - |  |
| Forerunner 735XT            | 2016-05 | 2.4.0 |  | MT3333 | - | iFixit [teardown](https://www.ifixit.com/Teardown/Garmin+Forerunner+735XT+Teardown/117852) |
| Forerunner 630              | 2015-10 | 1.4.0 |  | MT3333 | - | Tech T [teardown](https://youtu.be/WdbPKmjUrKc?t=114) |
| Forerunner 235        | 2015-10 | 1.4.0 |  | MT3333 | - |  |
| Forerunner 230 | 2015-10 | 1.4.0 |  | MT3333 | - | Embedded [teardown](https://embeddedcomputing.com/27555-tear-down-garmin-forerunner-230-gps-running-watch/) |
| Forerunner 25               | 2015-08 | - |  | MT3333 ? | - |  |
| Forerunner 225              | 2015-05 | - |  | MT3333 | - |                                                              |
| Forerunner 920XT            | 2014-10 | 1.4.0 |  | MT3333 | - |  |
| Forerunner 15               | 2014-05 | - |  | MT3333 ? | - |  |
| Forerunner 620              | 2013-09 | - |  | MT3333 | - |                                                              |
| Forerunner 220              | 2013-09 | - |  | MT3333 | - | EE World [teardown](https://www.eeworldonline.com/teardown-garmin-forerunner-220-sport-watch-heart-monitor/) |
| Forerunner 10    | 2012-08 | - |  | MT333x | - |  |

The MT333x in watches prior to 2013 was likely to be the MT3339 or MT3337.

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/mediatek/devices.md) about the Mediatek chipsets are available on another page.




### SiRF

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | --------------------------- |
| Forerunner 910XT | 2011-10 | - |  | SiRFstarIV | - | DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2011/10/garmin-forerunner-910xt-in-depth-review.html) |
| Forerunner 70 | 2011-10 | - | | SiRFstarIV | - |  |
| Forerunner 610   | 2011-04 | - |  | SiRFstarIV | - | DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2011/04/garmin-forerunner-610-in-depth-review.html) |
| Forerunner 410   | 2010-10 | - |  | SiRFstarIV | - |  |
| Forerunner 210   | 2010-10 | - |  | SiRFstarIV | - |  |
| Forerunner 110   | 2010-03 | - |  | SiRFstarIV | - | DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2010/03/garmin-forerunner-110-first-look-review.html) |
| Forerunner 405CX | 2009-04 | - |  | SiRFstarIII ? | - |  |
| Forerunner 310XT | 2009-04 | - |  | SiRFstarIII ? | - |  |
| Forerunner 60    | 2009-01 | - |  | SiRFstarIII ? | - |  |
| Forerunner 405   | 2008-01 | - |  | SiRFstarIII | - |  |
| Forerunner 50    | 2007-08 | - |  | SiRFstarIII | - |  |
| Forerunner 305   | 2006-01 | - |  | SiRFstarIII | - | Garmin [manual](https://static.garmin.com/pumac/984_OwnersManual.pdf) |
| Forerunner 205   | 2006-01 | - |  | SiRFstarIII | - | Garmin [manual](https://static.garmin.com/pumac/984_OwnersManual.pdf) |
| Forerunner 301   | 2005-01 | - |  | SiRFstarII | - |  |
| Forerunner 201   | 2003-08 | - |  | SiRFstarII | - |  |
| Forerunner 101   | 2003-03 | - |  | SiRFstarII | - |  |
