docs/devices/garmin/watches/instinct.md, before:

## Garmin Instinct

### Overview

This page lists the GNSS chipsets that are used in the Garmin Instinct watches.

It should be noted that the Instinct is not supported by [Windsurfing application](https://apps.garmin.com/apps/9d47be43-2724-44e4-8f5e-3005b0766087?tid=1) or [GPSTC V4](https://apps.garmin.com/apps/f0f3fbd5-9de3-4d69-b89b-10b76d6a9f0f?tid=1).

The various models are listed in reverse-chronological order. The release dates are generally from Garmin announcements.



### Airoha

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: |
| Instinct 3 AMOLED - 50 mm | 2025-01 | 5.0.0 | 4587 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-2DA54DF8-8084-40ED-954F-EDA09C13B47F/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) + DCR [hands on](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2025/01/garmin-instinct-3-series-hands-on-everything-you-need-to-know.html) |
| Instinct 3 AMOLED - 45 mm | 2025-01 | 5.0.0 | 4586 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-2DA54DF8-8084-40ED-954F-EDA09C13B47F/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) + DCR [hands on](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2025/01/garmin-instinct-3-series-hands-on-everything-you-need-to-know.html) |
| Instinct 3 Solar - 50 mm | 2025-01 | 5.0.0 | 4759 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-2C274FD2-F0C3-445C-B0AC-700FECCE12E9/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) + DCR [hands on](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2025/01/garmin-instinct-3-series-hands-on-everything-you-need-to-know.html) |
| Instinct 3 Solar - 45 mm | 2025-01 | 5.0.0 | 4585 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-2C274FD2-F0C3-445C-B0AC-700FECCE12E9/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) + DCR [hands on](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2025/01/garmin-instinct-3-series-hands-on-everything-you-need-to-know.html) |
| Instinct E - 45 mm | 2025-01 | 5.0.0 | 4584 | AG3335MN ? | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-D3C2D1F9-D2C0-404D-9372-7B2D57459BF8/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) |
| Instinct E - 40 mm | 2025-01 | 5.0.0 |  4583   | AG3335MN ? | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-D3C2D1F9-D2C0-404D-9372-7B2D57459BF8/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) |
| Instinct 2X Solar | 2023-04 | 3.4.0 | 4394 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-31D23DBB-57C2-4DF7-A0C9-8D1A00AB4BE7/EN-US/GUID-7778C63A-5928-4315-B25B-3DA9B3E467B6.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2023/04/garmin-instinct-2x-in-depth-review-bigger-and-flashlight-equipped.html) |
| Instinct Crossover \[Solar] | 2022-11  | 3.4.0 | 4155 | AG3335MN | - | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-64328278-25D1-45C2-BF05-6EC0CFD000D0/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) |

? - single band so could be AG3335MN or AG3352.

Alternative product number(s) are APAC variants.

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/airoha/devices.md) about the Airoha chipsets are available on another page.



### Sony

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: |
| Instinct 2 \[Solar] | 2022-02  | 3.4.0 | 3888, 4071 | CXD56xxxx | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-31D23DBB-57C2-4DF7-A0C9-8D1A00AB4BE7/EN-US/GUID-7778C63A-5928-4315-B25B-3DA9B3E467B6.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/02/garmin-instinct2-2s-2-solar-in-depth-review.html) + [comparison](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/02/instinct-detailed-comparison.html) |
| Instinct 2S \[Solar] | 2022-02 | 3.4.0 | 3889, 4091 | CXD56xxxx | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-31D23DBB-57C2-4DF7-A0C9-8D1A00AB4BE7/EN-US/GUID-7778C63A-5928-4315-B25B-3DA9B3E467B6.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/02/garmin-instinct2-2s-2-solar-in-depth-review.html) + [comparison](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/02/instinct-detailed-comparison.html) |
| Instinct - Esports         | 2020-10  | -     | 3126 | CXD56xxxx | - | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-DB0B2E91-DAF6-46B9-B1D2-89EDA37A56DC/EN-US/GUID-4EE5B773-E8A3-4C61-8D64-432B575963D8.html) + [announcement](https://www.garmin.com/en-US/newsroom/press-release/outdoor/2020-elevate-your-game-with-garmin-instinct-esports-edition/) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2020/10/garmin-instinct-esports-edition-all-the-details.html) |
| Instinct Solar     | 2020-07  | -     | 3466 | CXD56xxxx | - | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-A298EB1C-21D9-430F-8D06-A2CC74E5D5E9/EN-US/GUID-31C5EBD6-A5E6-46FA-9EDE-43DBA4872546.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2020/07/garmin-instinct-solar-review-whats-new-different.html) |

Alternative product number(s) are APAC variants.

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/sony/devices.md) about the Sony chipsets are available on another page.



### Mediatek

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: |
| Instinct - Tactical | 2019-08  |  -   |    ?    | MT3333  | - | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/instincttactical/EN-US/GUID-4EE5B773-E8A3-4C61-8D64-432B575963D8.html) + [announcement](https://www.garmin.com/en-US/newsroom/press-release/outdoor/2019-garmin-announces-the-instinct-tactical-edition/) |
| Instinct | 2018-10  | -    | ? | MT3333  | - | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/instinct/EN-US/GUID-4EE5B773-E8A3-4C61-8D64-432B575963D8.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2018/10/garmin-instinct-gps-watch-in-depth-review.html) |

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/mediatek/devices.md) about the Mediatek chipsets are available on another page.

Commit message:

STart to classify Synaptics watches

docs/devices/garmin/watches/instinct.md, after:

## Garmin Instinct

### Overview

This page lists the GNSS chipsets that are used in the Garmin Instinct watches.

It should be noted that the Instinct is not supported by [Windsurfing application](https://apps.garmin.com/apps/9d47be43-2724-44e4-8f5e-3005b0766087?tid=1) or [GPSTC V4](https://apps.garmin.com/apps/f0f3fbd5-9de3-4d69-b89b-10b76d6a9f0f?tid=1).

The various models are listed in reverse-chronological order. The release dates are generally from Garmin announcements.



### TBC

The Instinct 3 + Instinct E were released after the [fēnix 8](fenix.md), so may use an Airoha or Synaptics GNSS chipset.

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: |
| Instinct 3 AMOLED - 50 mm | 2025-01 | 5.0.0 | 4587 | SYN4778 ? | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-2DA54DF8-8084-40ED-954F-EDA09C13B47F/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) + DCR [hands on](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2025/01/garmin-instinct-3-series-hands-on-everything-you-need-to-know.html) |
| Instinct 3 AMOLED - 45 mm | 2025-01 | 5.0.0 | 4586 | SYN4778 ? | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-2DA54DF8-8084-40ED-954F-EDA09C13B47F/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) + DCR [hands on](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2025/01/garmin-instinct-3-series-hands-on-everything-you-need-to-know.html) |
| Instinct 3 Solar - 50 mm | 2025-01 | 5.0.0 | 4759 | SYN4778 ? | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-2C274FD2-F0C3-445C-B0AC-700FECCE12E9/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) + DCR [hands on](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2025/01/garmin-instinct-3-series-hands-on-everything-you-need-to-know.html) |
| Instinct 3 Solar - 45 mm | 2025-01 | 5.0.0 | 4585 | SYN4778 ? | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-2C274FD2-F0C3-445C-B0AC-700FECCE12E9/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) + DCR [hands on](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2025/01/garmin-instinct-3-series-hands-on-everything-you-need-to-know.html) |
| Instinct E - 45 mm | 2025-01 | 5.0.0 | 4584 | AG3335MN ? | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-D3C2D1F9-D2C0-404D-9372-7B2D57459BF8/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) |
| Instinct E - 40 mm | 2025-01 | 5.0.0 |  4583   | AG3335MN ? | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-D3C2D1F9-D2C0-404D-9372-7B2D57459BF8/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) |

? - single band could be AG3335MN or AG3352.



### Airoha

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: |
| Instinct 2X Solar | 2023-04 | 3.4.0 | 4394 | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-31D23DBB-57C2-4DF7-A0C9-8D1A00AB4BE7/EN-US/GUID-7778C63A-5928-4315-B25B-3DA9B3E467B6.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2023/04/garmin-instinct-2x-in-depth-review-bigger-and-flashlight-equipped.html) |
| Instinct Crossover \[Solar] | 2022-11  | 3.4.0 | 4155 | AG3335MN | - | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-64328278-25D1-45C2-BF05-6EC0CFD000D0/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) |

? - single band so could be AG3335MN or AG3352.

Alternative product number(s) are APAC variants.

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/airoha/devices.md) about the Airoha chipsets are available on another page.



### Sony

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: |
| Instinct 2 \[Solar] | 2022-02  | 3.4.0 | 3888, 4071 | CXD56xxxx | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-31D23DBB-57C2-4DF7-A0C9-8D1A00AB4BE7/EN-US/GUID-7778C63A-5928-4315-B25B-3DA9B3E467B6.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/02/garmin-instinct2-2s-2-solar-in-depth-review.html) + [comparison](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/02/instinct-detailed-comparison.html) |
| Instinct 2S \[Solar] | 2022-02 | 3.4.0 | 3889, 4091 | CXD56xxxx | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-31D23DBB-57C2-4DF7-A0C9-8D1A00AB4BE7/EN-US/GUID-7778C63A-5928-4315-B25B-3DA9B3E467B6.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/02/garmin-instinct2-2s-2-solar-in-depth-review.html) + [comparison](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/02/instinct-detailed-comparison.html) |
| Instinct - Esports         | 2020-10  | -     | 3126 | CXD56xxxx | - | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-DB0B2E91-DAF6-46B9-B1D2-89EDA37A56DC/EN-US/GUID-4EE5B773-E8A3-4C61-8D64-432B575963D8.html) + [announcement](https://www.garmin.com/en-US/newsroom/press-release/outdoor/2020-elevate-your-game-with-garmin-instinct-esports-edition/) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2020/10/garmin-instinct-esports-edition-all-the-details.html) |
| Instinct Solar     | 2020-07  | -     | 3466 | CXD56xxxx | - | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-A298EB1C-21D9-430F-8D06-A2CC74E5D5E9/EN-US/GUID-31C5EBD6-A5E6-46FA-9EDE-43DBA4872546.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2020/07/garmin-instinct-solar-review-whats-new-different.html) |

Alternative product number(s) are APAC variants.

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/sony/devices.md) about the Sony chipsets are available on another page.



### Mediatek

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: |
| Instinct - Tactical | 2019-08  |  -   |    ?    | MT3333  | - | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/instincttactical/EN-US/GUID-4EE5B773-E8A3-4C61-8D64-432B575963D8.html) + [announcement](https://www.garmin.com/en-US/newsroom/press-release/outdoor/2019-garmin-announces-the-instinct-tactical-edition/) |
| Instinct | 2018-10  | -    | ? | MT3333  | - | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/instinct/EN-US/GUID-4EE5B773-E8A3-4C61-8D64-432B575963D8.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2018/10/garmin-instinct-gps-watch-in-depth-review.html) |

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/mediatek/devices.md) about the Mediatek chipsets are available on another page.
