docs/devices/garmin/watches/quatix.md, before:

## Garmin quatix

### Overview

This page lists the GNSS chipsets that are used in the Garmin quatix watches.

The quatix is similar to the Fenix, but with some additional boating features and slightly less recreational features.

The various models are listed in reverse-chronological order. The release dates are generally from Garmin announcements.



### Airoha

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | -------- |
| quatix 7 - Pro | 2023-11 | 5.0.0 | ? | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-6D76A13F-2195-4287-9B0C-2124AECF9717/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) |
| quatix 7 - Sapphire | 2022-04 | 5.0.0 | ? | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-61792F90-CAB8-4B7C-954A-1E1A080A6FB6/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) |
| quatix 7X - Solar | 2022-04 | 5.0.0 | ? | AG3335MN | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-6D76A13F-2195-4287-9B0C-2124AECF9717/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) |
| quatix 7 | 2022-04 | 5.0.0 | ? | AG3335MN | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-6D76A13F-2195-4287-9B0C-2124AECF9717/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) |

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/airoha/devices.md) about the Airoha chipsets are available on another page.



### Sony

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | -------- |
| quatix 6X - Solar | 2020-05  | 3.4.0 | ? | CXD56xxxx | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-3D8FCD7B-7C56-43A9-8665-5CDE4FFD7DF3/EN-US/GUID-31C5EBD6-A5E6-46FA-9EDE-43DBA4872546.html) |
| quatix 6 - Titanium | 2020-04  | 3.4.0 | ? | CXD56xxxx | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-3D8FCD7B-7C56-43A9-8665-5CDE4FFD7DF3/EN-US/GUID-31C5EBD6-A5E6-46FA-9EDE-43DBA4872546.html) |
| quatix 6          | 2020-04  | 3.4.0 | ? | CXD56xxxx | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-3D8FCD7B-7C56-43A9-8665-5CDE4FFD7DF3/EN-US/GUID-31C5EBD6-A5E6-46FA-9EDE-43DBA4872546.html) |

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/sony/devices.md) about the Sony chipsets are available on another page.



### Mediatek

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | -------- |
| quatix 5 - Sapphire | 2017-06  | 3.1.0 | ? | MT3333  | Y |            |
| quatix 5          | 2017-06  | 3.1.0 | ? | MT3333  | Y |            |
| quatix 3          | 2016-01  | 1.4.0 | ? | MT3333  | - |            |
| quatix            | 2012-07  | -     | ? | MT333x  | - |            |

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/mediatek/devices.md) about the Mediatek chipsets are available on another page.

Commit message:

Add notes about the MT333x in watches prior to 2013

docs/devices/garmin/watches/quatix.md, after:

## Garmin quatix

### Overview

This page lists the GNSS chipsets that are used in the Garmin quatix watches.

The quatix is similar to the Fenix, but with some additional boating features and slightly less recreational features.

The various models are listed in reverse-chronological order. The release dates are generally from Garmin announcements.



### Airoha

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | -------- |
| quatix 7 - Pro | 2023-11 | 5.0.0 | ? | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-6D76A13F-2195-4287-9B0C-2124AECF9717/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) |
| quatix 7 - Sapphire | 2022-04 | 5.0.0 | ? | AG3335M | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-61792F90-CAB8-4B7C-954A-1E1A080A6FB6/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) |
| quatix 7X - Solar | 2022-04 | 5.0.0 | ? | AG3335MN | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-6D76A13F-2195-4287-9B0C-2124AECF9717/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) |
| quatix 7 | 2022-04 | 5.0.0 | ? | AG3335MN | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-6D76A13F-2195-4287-9B0C-2124AECF9717/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) |

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/airoha/devices.md) about the Airoha chipsets are available on another page.



### Sony

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | -------- |
| quatix 6X - Solar | 2020-05  | 3.4.0 | ? | CXD56xxxx | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-3D8FCD7B-7C56-43A9-8665-5CDE4FFD7DF3/EN-US/GUID-31C5EBD6-A5E6-46FA-9EDE-43DBA4872546.html) |
| quatix 6 - Titanium | 2020-04  | 3.4.0 | ? | CXD56xxxx | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-3D8FCD7B-7C56-43A9-8665-5CDE4FFD7DF3/EN-US/GUID-31C5EBD6-A5E6-46FA-9EDE-43DBA4872546.html) |
| quatix 6          | 2020-04  | 3.4.0 | ? | CXD56xxxx | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-3D8FCD7B-7C56-43A9-8665-5CDE4FFD7DF3/EN-US/GUID-31C5EBD6-A5E6-46FA-9EDE-43DBA4872546.html) |

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/sony/devices.md) about the Sony chipsets are available on another page.



### Mediatek

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | -------- |
| quatix 5 - Sapphire | 2017-06  | 3.1.0 | ? | MT3333  | Y |            |
| quatix 5          | 2017-06  | 3.1.0 | ? | MT3333  | Y |            |
| quatix 3          | 2016-01  | 1.4.0 | ? | MT3333  | - |            |
| quatix            | 2012-07  | -     | ? | MT333x  | - |            |

The MT333x in watches prior to 2013 was likely to be the MT3339 or MT3337.

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/mediatek/devices.md) about the Mediatek chipsets are available on another page.
