docs/devices/garmin/watches/README.md, before:

## Garmin Watches

### Overview

The GNSS chipset is probably the most significant factor when it comes to the accuracy and reliability of GPS watches. Additional factors include antenna design, GNSS firmware, watch firmware, and user settings. The activity mode and / or app choice are also really important.

This page lists the GNSS chipsets of the many Garmin watches that people may wish to use for GPS-Speedsurfing (GP3S). The information is intended for people choosing a Garmin watch, or curious about the suitability of their current watch.



### Airoha GNSS Chipset

When choosing a Garmin watch it is highly recommended that you choose a model which incorporates an Airoha GNSS chipset. The speeds from the Airoha chipset are a lot more trustworthy than earlier watches, especially the ones using a Sony GNSS chipset.

There are numerous Garmin watches that incorporate the Airoha AG3335M (multi-band GNSS) or AG3335MN (single-band GNSS). The following sections list all of the Airoha-based Garmin watches that you might wish to consider for wind sports.

Disclaimer: It should be noted that not all of these watches have been tested extensively. Whilst they all use Airoha chipsets there are other factors that impact GNSS accuracy, such as the antenna design and watch firmware. Testing different watches is an ongoing activity.



#### Rugged

| Series                  | Model                                     | Multi-Band |
| ----------------------- | ----------------------------------------- | :--------: |
| [fēnix](fenix.md)       | fēnix E                                   |     -      |
|                         | fēnix 8 - 47/51 mm - Sapphire Solar       |     Y      |
|                         | fēnix 8 - 42/47/51 mm - AMOLED            |     Y      |
|                         | fēnix 7/7S/7X - Pro Sapphire Solar        |     Y      |
|                         | fēnix 7/7S/7X - Pro Solar                 |     Y      |
|                         | fēnix 7/7S/7X - Sapphire Solar            |     Y      |
|                         | fēnix 7/7S/7X - Solar                     |     -      |
|                         | fēnix 7/7S                                |     -      |
| [epix](epix.md)         | epix Pro (Gen 2) - Sapphire - 42/47/51 mm |     Y      |
|                         | epix Pro (Gen 2) - 42/47/51 mm            |     Y      |
|                         | epix (Gen 2) - Sapphire - 47 mm           |     Y      |
|                         | epix (Gen 2) - 47 mm                      |     -      |
| [quatix](quatix.md)     | quatix 7 - Pro                            |     Y      |
|                         | quatix 7 - Sapphire                       |     Y      |
|                         | quatix 7X - Solar                         |     -      |
|                         | quatix 7                                  |     -      |
| [tactix](tactix.md)     | tactix 7 - AMOLED                         |     Y      |
|                         | tactix 7 - Pro Ballistics                 |     Y      |
|                         | tactix 7 - Pro                            |     Y      |
|                         | tactix 7                                  |     -      |
| [Instinct](instinct.md) | Instinct 2X Solar - Tactical              |     Y      |
|                         | Instinct 2X Solar                         |     Y      |
|                         | Instinct Crossover Solar - Tactical       |     -      |
|                         | Instinct Crossover Solar                  |     -      |
|                         | Instinct Crossover                        |     -      |



#### Running / Triathlon

| Series                      | Model                 | Multi-Band |
| --------------------------- | --------------------- | :--------: |
| [Forerunner](forerunner.md) | Forerunner 165        |     -      |
|                             | Forerunner 965        |     Y      |
|                             | Forerunner 265 / 265S |     Y      |
|                             | Forerunner 955        |     Y      |
|                             | Forerunner 255 / 255S |     Y      |
| [Enduro](enduro.md)         | Enduro 3              |     Y      |
|                             | Enduro 2              |     Y      |



#### Fitness / Fashion

| Series                      | Model             | Multi-Band |
| --------------------------- | ----------------- | :--------: |
| [vívoactive](vivoactive.md) | vívoactive 5      |     -      |
| [Venu](venu.md)             | Venu 3 / 3S       |     -      |
|                             | Venu Sq 2 [Music] |     -      |



### Recommended Apps

The following app is highly recommended for wind sports, due to its features and ease of use:

- [APPro Windsurf](https://apps.garmin.com/apps/9567700b-6587-44be-9708-879bfc844791)

The following app may be worth trying if APPro cannot be installed on your watch:

- [Windsurfing application](https://apps.garmin.com/apps/9d47be43-2724-44e4-8f5e-3005b0766087)

The following data field may be worth trying if you compete in the [GPS Team Challenge](https://www.gpsteamchallenge.com.au/):

- [GPSTC V4](https://apps.garmin.com/apps/f0f3fbd5-9de3-4d69-b89b-10b76d6a9f0f)



### Watch Specifications

#### Popular Watches

Technical specification, including GNSS details are provided for the following Garmin watches:

- Rugged
  - [fēnix](fenix.md)
  - [epix](epix.md)
  - [quatix](quatix.md)
  - [tactix](tactix.md)
  - [Instinct](instinct.md)
- Running / Triathlon
  - [Forerunner](forerunner.md)
  - [Enduro](enduro.md)
- Fitness / Fashion
  - [vívoactive](vivoactive.md)
  - [Venu](venu.md)



#### Less Popular Watches

These watches are rarely / never used on GP3S, but supported by [APPro Windsurf](https://apps.garmin.com/apps/9567700b-6587-44be-9708-879bfc844791) or [Windsurfing application](https://apps.garmin.com/apps/9d47be43-2724-44e4-8f5e-3005b0766087):

- Approach - golf smartwatches
- Descent - dive computers
- D2 - aviator smartwatches
- MARQ - luxury smartwatches

These devices are rarely / never used on GP3S, and not supported by the recommended apps:

- Edge - bike computers
- eTrex - GPS navigators
- Foretrex - GPS navigators
- Gekko - GPS navigators
- Swim - swimming watches



### Sources

Most of the information has been gleaned from watch reviews, disassembly / teardown photos, testing and / or deduction.

Chipsets for the very oldest watches have been determined using a variety of sources, including [fellrnr.com](https://fellrnr.com/wiki/GPS_Accuracy-summary) and [test results](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/psdyxm93y2m12j3/AABNlbBRsF2E3edvzqnnMPC4a?dl=0&preview=Test+Results+-+All+Watches.xlsx) by Mark Gee.

API levels obtained from Garmin [developer](https://developer.garmin.com/connect-iq/compatible-devices/) site.

Commit message:

Instinct Crossover is not supported by APPro

docs/devices/garmin/watches/README.md, after:

## Garmin Watches

### Overview

The GNSS chipset is probably the most significant factor when it comes to the accuracy and reliability of GPS watches. Additional factors include antenna design, GNSS firmware, watch firmware, and user settings. The activity mode and / or app choice are also really important.

This page lists the GNSS chipsets of the many Garmin watches that people may wish to use for GPS-Speedsurfing (GP3S). The information is intended for people choosing a Garmin watch, or curious about the suitability of their current watch.



### Airoha GNSS Chipset

When choosing a Garmin watch it is highly recommended that you choose a model which incorporates an Airoha GNSS chipset. The speeds from the Airoha chipset are a lot more trustworthy than earlier watches, especially the ones using a Sony GNSS chipset.

There are numerous Garmin watches that incorporate the Airoha AG3335M (multi-band GNSS) or AG3335MN (single-band GNSS). The following sections list all of the Airoha-based Garmin watches that you might wish to consider for wind sports.

Disclaimer: It should be noted that not all of these watches have been tested extensively. Whilst they all use Airoha chipsets there are other factors that impact GNSS accuracy, such as the antenna design and watch firmware. Testing different watches is an ongoing activity.



#### Rugged

| Series                  | Model                                     | Multi-Band |
| ----------------------- | ----------------------------------------- | :--------: |
| [fēnix](fenix.md)       | fēnix E                                   |     -      |
|                         | fēnix 8 - 47/51 mm - Sapphire Solar       |     Y      |
|                         | fēnix 8 - 42/47/51 mm - AMOLED            |     Y      |
|                         | fēnix 7/7S/7X - Pro Sapphire Solar        |     Y      |
|                         | fēnix 7/7S/7X - Pro Solar                 |     Y      |
|                         | fēnix 7/7S/7X - Sapphire Solar            |     Y      |
|                         | fēnix 7/7S/7X - Solar                     |     -      |
|                         | fēnix 7/7S                                |     -      |
| [epix](epix.md)         | epix Pro (Gen 2) - Sapphire - 42/47/51 mm |     Y      |
|                         | epix Pro (Gen 2) - 42/47/51 mm            |     Y      |
|                         | epix (Gen 2) - Sapphire - 47 mm           |     Y      |
|                         | epix (Gen 2) - 47 mm                      |     -      |
| [quatix](quatix.md)     | quatix 7 - Pro                            |     Y      |
|                         | quatix 7 - Sapphire                       |     Y      |
|                         | quatix 7X - Solar                         |     -      |
|                         | quatix 7                                  |     -      |
| [tactix](tactix.md)     | tactix 7 - AMOLED                         |     Y      |
|                         | tactix 7 - Pro Ballistics                 |     Y      |
|                         | tactix 7 - Pro                            |     Y      |
|                         | tactix 7                                  |     -      |
| [Instinct](instinct.md) | Instinct 2X Solar - Tactical              |     Y      |
|                         | Instinct 2X Solar                         |     Y      |
|                         | Instinct Crossover Solar - Tactical \*    |     -      |
|                         | Instinct Crossover Solar \*               |     -      |
|                         | Instinct Crossover \*                     |     -      |

Note \* - The Instinct Crossover is not supported by [APPro Windsurf](https://apps.garmin.com/apps/9567700b-6587-44be-9708-879bfc844791).



#### Running / Triathlon

| Series                      | Model                 | Multi-Band |
| --------------------------- | --------------------- | :--------: |
| [Forerunner](forerunner.md) | Forerunner 165        |     -      |
|                             | Forerunner 965        |     Y      |
|                             | Forerunner 265 / 265S |     Y      |
|                             | Forerunner 955        |     Y      |
|                             | Forerunner 255 / 255S |     Y      |
| [Enduro](enduro.md)         | Enduro 3              |     Y      |
|                             | Enduro 2              |     Y      |



#### Fitness / Fashion

| Series                      | Model             | Multi-Band |
| --------------------------- | ----------------- | :--------: |
| [vívoactive](vivoactive.md) | vívoactive 5      |     -      |
| [Venu](venu.md)             | Venu 3 / 3S       |     -      |
|                             | Venu Sq 2 [Music] |     -      |



### Recommended Apps

The following app is highly recommended for wind sports, due to its features and ease of use:

- [APPro Windsurf](https://apps.garmin.com/apps/9567700b-6587-44be-9708-879bfc844791)

The following app may be worth trying if APPro cannot be installed on your watch:

- [Windsurfing application](https://apps.garmin.com/apps/9d47be43-2724-44e4-8f5e-3005b0766087)

The following data field may be worth trying if you compete in the [GPS Team Challenge](https://www.gpsteamchallenge.com.au/):

- [GPSTC V4](https://apps.garmin.com/apps/f0f3fbd5-9de3-4d69-b89b-10b76d6a9f0f)



### Watch Specifications

#### Popular Watches

Technical specification, including GNSS details are provided for the following Garmin watches:

- Rugged
  - [fēnix](fenix.md)
  - [epix](epix.md)
  - [quatix](quatix.md)
  - [tactix](tactix.md)
  - [Instinct](instinct.md)
- Running / Triathlon
  - [Forerunner](forerunner.md)
  - [Enduro](enduro.md)
- Fitness / Fashion
  - [vívoactive](vivoactive.md)
  - [Venu](venu.md)



#### Less Popular Watches

These watches are rarely / never used on GP3S, but supported by [APPro Windsurf](https://apps.garmin.com/apps/9567700b-6587-44be-9708-879bfc844791) or [Windsurfing application](https://apps.garmin.com/apps/9d47be43-2724-44e4-8f5e-3005b0766087):

- Approach - golf smartwatches
- Descent - dive computers
- D2 - aviator smartwatches
- MARQ - luxury smartwatches

These devices are rarely / never used on GP3S, and not supported by the recommended apps:

- Edge - bike computers
- eTrex - GPS navigators
- Foretrex - GPS navigators
- Gekko - GPS navigators
- Swim - swimming watches



### Sources

Most of the information has been gleaned from watch reviews, disassembly / teardown photos, testing and / or deduction.

Chipsets for the very oldest watches have been determined using a variety of sources, including [fellrnr.com](https://fellrnr.com/wiki/GPS_Accuracy-summary) and [test results](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/psdyxm93y2m12j3/AABNlbBRsF2E3edvzqnnMPC4a?dl=0&preview=Test+Results+-+All+Watches.xlsx) by Mark Gee.

API levels obtained from Garmin [developer](https://developer.garmin.com/connect-iq/compatible-devices/) site.
