docs/devices/garmin/watches/venu.md, before:

## Garmin Venu

### Overview

This page lists the GNSS chipsets that are used in the Garmin Venu watches.

The Venu watches are essentially a vívoactive with AMOLED display.

The various models are listed in reverse-chronological order.



### Airoha

| Model                       | Released   | Chipset | References |
| --------------------------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- |
| Venu 3 / 3S | 2023-08 | AG3335MN or AG3352 | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals-apac/webhelp/venu33s/EN-SG/GUID-220C5858-1518-4580-AEA8-EC0E2A523BFE-7277.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2023/08/garmin-venu-3-in-depth-review-more-sleep-analytics-power-meters-and-more.html) |
| Venu Sq 2   | 2022-09  | AG3335MN | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals-apac/webhelp/venusq2/EN-SG/GUID-57C7FCDE-E149-4898-96F3-F5D53D177F00-4988.html) + FCC [teardown](https://fccid.io/IPH-A4390/Internal-Photos/Internal-Photos-5919160) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/09/garmin-venu-sq-2-in-depth-review.html) |

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/airoha/devices.md) about the Airoha chipsets are available on another page.



### Sony

| Model           | Released | Chipset   | References                                                   |
| --------------- | -------- | --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Venu 2 Plus     | 2022-01  | CXD56xxxx | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-A17FE8AC-DA32-4494-ABD1-AD1A388CC0C0/EN-US/GUID-783E2C4A-85FB-4E82-946E-16003B9B599A.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/01/garmin-venu-2-plus-in-depth-review.html) |
| Venu 2 / 2S     | 2021-04  | CXD56xxxx | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-D93137A9-B374-4A24-8A4D-A66C9AC91265/EN-US/GUID-783E2C4A-85FB-4E82-946E-16003B9B599A.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2021/04/garmin-venu2-venu2s-smartwatch-review.html) |
| Venu Sq [Music] | 2020-09  | CXD56xxxx | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-1C3C7630-B695-44C3-AF56-949C1D4889FB/EN-US/GUID-783E2C4A-85FB-4E82-946E-16003B9B599A.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2020/09/garmin-venu-sq-in-depth-review.html) |
| Venu            | 2019-09  | CXD5603GF | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/venu/EN-US/GUID-783E2C4A-85FB-4E82-946E-16003B9B599A.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2019/12/garmin-venu-smartwatch-sports-review.html) |

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/sony/devices.md) about the Sony chipsets are available on another page.

Commit message:

Add chipset information for Garmin tactix

docs/devices/garmin/watches/venu.md, after:

## Garmin Venu

### Overview

This page lists the GNSS chipsets that are used in the Garmin Venu watches.

The Venu watches are essentially a vívoactive with AMOLED display.

The various models are listed in reverse-chronological order. The release dates are generally from Garmin announcements.



### Airoha

| Model                       | Released   | Chipset | References |
| --------------------------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- |
| Venu 3 / 3S | 2023-08 | AG3335MN or AG3352 | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals-apac/webhelp/venu33s/EN-SG/GUID-220C5858-1518-4580-AEA8-EC0E2A523BFE-7277.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2023/08/garmin-venu-3-in-depth-review-more-sleep-analytics-power-meters-and-more.html) |
| Venu Sq 2   | 2022-09  | AG3335MN | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals-apac/webhelp/venusq2/EN-SG/GUID-57C7FCDE-E149-4898-96F3-F5D53D177F00-4988.html) + FCC [teardown](https://fccid.io/IPH-A4390/Internal-Photos/Internal-Photos-5919160) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/09/garmin-venu-sq-2-in-depth-review.html) |

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/airoha/devices.md) about the Airoha chipsets are available on another page.



### Sony

| Model           | Released | Chipset   | References                                                   |
| --------------- | -------- | --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Venu 2 Plus     | 2022-01  | CXD56xxxx | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-A17FE8AC-DA32-4494-ABD1-AD1A388CC0C0/EN-US/GUID-783E2C4A-85FB-4E82-946E-16003B9B599A.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2022/01/garmin-venu-2-plus-in-depth-review.html) |
| Venu 2 / 2S     | 2021-04  | CXD56xxxx | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-D93137A9-B374-4A24-8A4D-A66C9AC91265/EN-US/GUID-783E2C4A-85FB-4E82-946E-16003B9B599A.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2021/04/garmin-venu2-venu2s-smartwatch-review.html) |
| Venu Sq [Music] | 2020-09  | CXD56xxxx | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-1C3C7630-B695-44C3-AF56-949C1D4889FB/EN-US/GUID-783E2C4A-85FB-4E82-946E-16003B9B599A.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2020/09/garmin-venu-sq-in-depth-review.html) |
| Venu            | 2019-09  | CXD5603GF | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/venu/EN-US/GUID-783E2C4A-85FB-4E82-946E-16003B9B599A.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2019/12/garmin-venu-smartwatch-sports-review.html) |

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/sony/devices.md) about the Sony chipsets are available on another page.
