docs/devices/garmin/watches/vivoactive.md, before:

## Garmin vívoactive

### Overview

This page lists the GNSS chipsets that are used in the Garmin vívoactive watches.

The various models are listed in reverse-chronological order. The release dates are generally from Garmin announcements.



### Airoha

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | -------- |
| vívoactive 6 | 2025-04 | 5.0.0 | 4625 | AG3335MN ? | - | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-8C2C402F-55AC-431F-9CF2-1442B89CE149/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2025/04/garmin-vivoactive-6-details-hands-everything.html) |
| vívoactive 5 | 2023-09 | 5.0.0 | 4426 | AG3335MN ? | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-5D183A14-BB43-4A9B-B441-5F824214CE40/EN-US/GUID-783E2C4A-85FB-4E82-946E-16003B9B599A.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2023/09/garmin-vivoactive-5-in-depth-review-now-with-an-amoled-display.html) |

? - single band so could be AG3335MN or AG3352.

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/airoha/devices.md) about the Airoha chipsets are available on another page.



### Sony

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | -------- |
| vívoactive 4 | 2019-09  | 3.3.0 | 3225, 3388 | CXD5603GF | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/vivoactive4_4S/EN-US/GUID-783E2C4A-85FB-4E82-946E-16003B9B599A.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2020/02/garmin-vivoactive-4-gps-smartwatch-in-depth-review.html) |
| vívoactive 4S | 2019-09 | 3.3.0 | 3224, 3387 | CXD5603GF | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/vivoactive4_4S/EN-US/GUID-783E2C4A-85FB-4E82-946E-16003B9B599A.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2020/02/garmin-vivoactive-4-gps-smartwatch-in-depth-review.html) |

Alternative product number(s) are APAC variants.

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/sony/devices.md) about the Sony chipsets are available on another page.



### Mediatek

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | -------- |
| vívoactive 3 Mercedes-Benz | 2019-03 | 3.0.0 | 3473, 3477 | MT3333 | - |  |
| vívoactive 3 Music LTE | 2019-02  | 3.1.0 | 3066 | MT3333  | Y |                                                              |
| vívoactive 3 Music     | 2018-06  | 3.2.0 | 2988, 3163 | MT3333  | Y |                                                              |
| vívoactive 3           | 2017-09  | 3.1.0 | 2700, 2976, 3446 | MT3333  | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/vivoactive3/EN-US/GUID-A8048FBA-ABB9-4786-B888-303A20574D68.html) + DCR [article](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2017/08/garmin-vivoactive-3-everything-you-need-to-know.html) |
| vívoactive HR          | 2016-02  | 2.4.0 | 2337, 2497 | MT3333  | - | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/vivoactivehr/EN-US/GUID-783E2C4A-85FB-4E82-946E-16003B9B599A.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2016/05/garmin-vivoactivehr-review.html) |
| vívoactive             | 2015-01  | 1.4.0 | 1907, 2160 | MT3333  | - | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/vivoactive/EN-US/GUID-1ACDA769-89EB-438C-80EC-F63D01631BA7.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2015/01/vivoactive-smartwatch-vivofit2.html#the-vivoactive) |

Alternative product number(s) include APAC variants.

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/mediatek/devices.md) about the Mediatek chipsets are available on another page.

Commit message:

STart to classify Synaptics watches

docs/devices/garmin/watches/vivoactive.md, after:

## Garmin vívoactive

### Overview

This page lists the GNSS chipsets that are used in the Garmin vívoactive watches.

The various models are listed in reverse-chronological order. The release dates are generally from Garmin announcements.



### TBC

The vívoactive 6 was released after the [fēnix 8](fenix.md), so may use an Airoha or Synaptics GNSS chipset.

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | -------- |
| vívoactive 6 | 2025-04 | 5.0.0 | 4625 | AG3335MN ? | - | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-8C2C402F-55AC-431F-9CF2-1442B89CE149/EN-US/GUID-9AC5D40D-5CCE-4D21-B8C2-10A04B25E152.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2025/04/garmin-vivoactive-6-details-hands-everything.html) |

? - single band so could be AG3335MN or AG3352.



### Airoha

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | -------- |
| vívoactive 5 | 2023-09 | 5.0.0 | 4426 | AG3335MN ? | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/GUID-5D183A14-BB43-4A9B-B441-5F824214CE40/EN-US/GUID-783E2C4A-85FB-4E82-946E-16003B9B599A.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2023/09/garmin-vivoactive-5-in-depth-review-now-with-an-amoled-display.html) |

? - single band so could be AG3335MN or AG3352.

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/airoha/devices.md) about the Airoha chipsets are available on another page.



### Sony

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | -------- |
| vívoactive 4 | 2019-09  | 3.3.0 | 3225, 3388 | CXD5603GF | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/vivoactive4_4S/EN-US/GUID-783E2C4A-85FB-4E82-946E-16003B9B599A.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2020/02/garmin-vivoactive-4-gps-smartwatch-in-depth-review.html) |
| vívoactive 4S | 2019-09 | 3.3.0 | 3224, 3387 | CXD5603GF | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/vivoactive4_4S/EN-US/GUID-783E2C4A-85FB-4E82-946E-16003B9B599A.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2020/02/garmin-vivoactive-4-gps-smartwatch-in-depth-review.html) |

Alternative product number(s) are APAC variants.

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/sony/devices.md) about the Sony chipsets are available on another page.



### Mediatek

| Model                       | Released   | API | Product | Chipset | APPro? | References |
| --------------------------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | -------- |
| vívoactive 3 Mercedes-Benz | 2019-03 | 3.0.0 | 3473, 3477 | MT3333 | - |  |
| vívoactive 3 Music LTE | 2019-02  | 3.1.0 | 3066 | MT3333  | Y |                                                              |
| vívoactive 3 Music     | 2018-06  | 3.2.0 | 2988, 3163 | MT3333  | Y |                                                              |
| vívoactive 3           | 2017-09  | 3.1.0 | 2700, 2976, 3446 | MT3333  | Y | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/vivoactive3/EN-US/GUID-A8048FBA-ABB9-4786-B888-303A20574D68.html) + DCR [article](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2017/08/garmin-vivoactive-3-everything-you-need-to-know.html) |
| vívoactive HR          | 2016-02  | 2.4.0 | 2337, 2497 | MT3333  | - | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/vivoactivehr/EN-US/GUID-783E2C4A-85FB-4E82-946E-16003B9B599A.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2016/05/garmin-vivoactivehr-review.html) |
| vívoactive             | 2015-01  | 1.4.0 | 1907, 2160 | MT3333  | - | Garmin [manual](https://www8.garmin.com/manuals/webhelp/vivoactive/EN-US/GUID-1ACDA769-89EB-438C-80EC-F63D01631BA7.html) + DCR [review](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2015/01/vivoactive-smartwatch-vivofit2.html#the-vivoactive) |

Alternative product number(s) include APAC variants.

Additional [notes](../../../chipsets/mediatek/devices.md) about the Mediatek chipsets are available on another page.
